Version 11
                                                 "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11


1 - INT. LABORATORY — DAY

SCIENCE PROGRAM, over the OPENING CREDITS:

A pigeon in a lab cage is pressing a lever. A seed falls into its
dish. The bird gobbles it down and repeats the process. The
scientist then sets a timer: a seed is released automatically
every twenty seconds. The pigeon, flapping its wings, observes the
seed.

                          VOICE OF ADULT NEMO (OFF)
               Like most living creatures, the
               pigeon   quickly   associates   the
               pressing of the lever and the
               reward. This is Pavlov’s well-known
               “conditioned reflex.” But when a
               timer     releases     a     seed
               automatically,     every    twenty
               seconds, the pigeon wonders: “What
               did I do to deserve this?” If it                           *
               was flapping its wings at the time,
               it will continue to flap, convinced                        *
               that its actions have a decisive                           *
               influence on what happens. We call                         *
               this “PIGEON SUPERSTITION.”

The pigeon flaps its wings       continually    as   the   seeds   fall   *
automatically into its dish.

END OF OPENING CREDITS AND TITLE: “MR. NOBODY”                            *


2 - PROLOGUE

2A - A morgue. An unidentified body. It bears only one shoe, which
is too small. The door of the refrigerated room closes on him.

                         ADULT NEMO (OFF)
               What did I do to deserve this?                             *

2B - A man of thirty-six – NEMO – opens his eyes. He is running
down train tracks.

A train rushes toward him with a deafening roar, blinding him.
Just as he is about to be crushed, he wakes up...

2C - He opens his eyes. He is behind the wheel of a car, his
seatbelt on, underwater in a river. The windshield bursts and
water pours into the car... He drowns...

2D - He wakes up underwater, sits up... He is in his bathtub. He
coughs, spits out water. A stranger opens the door and shoots him
in the chest...




                              - 1 -
                                                   "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



2F - He wakes up. He is in a free-fall in complete darkness, in
his bathrobe, turning in the void. Below him, a swimming pool.
Empty...

2G - He wakes up... An alarm. He is at the controls of a
spaceship. Meteorites are crashing into the vessel, the wide
cockpit window shatters. The vessel explodes. AN ALARM sounds.           *


3 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Hologram of an alarm clock going off. An old man’s hand gropes
around, turns it off. The old man walks clumsily in the dark,
bumping into things. He sees his clothes on a chair, next to a
pair of slippers. He goes to the sink. He turns on the light and
suddenly sees his face in the mirror. It is Nemo. He is extremely
old. He is one hundred and twenty years old... He touches his
face, trembling, stunned. He panics.

                        OLD NEMO
              No... NO...


4 - INT. PSYCHIATRIST’S OFFICE — DAY

Subjective point of view. A kind-looking psychiatrist, DR.
FELDHEIM, a man of about fifty, sits facing us, looking at us. He
is taking notes, sitting in a chair. A small video camera is
recording the interview. Words from the exchange write themselves
on what looks like a computer.

                            DOCTOR
              How ’s   it    been going   since   last                   *
              week?

                        NEMO (OFF)
              ?! ... We know each other?

                        DOCTOR
              We see each other every week.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              Since when?

                        DOCTOR
              Since I started working here. I’m                          *
              Dr. Feldheim. And who are you?                             *

                        NEMO (OFF)
              ... Nobody. Nemo Nobody.

                       DOCTOR
              That’s an unusual name. Don’t you                          *
              think?                                                     *




                                - 2 -
                                                 "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NEMO (OFF)
              Sometimes     people call   me    Mr.                    *
              Craft... C.R.A.F.T...                                    *


                        DOCTOR                                         *
              Uh?...                                                   *

                        NEMO (OFF)                                     *
              “Can’t Remember A Fucking Thing.”                        *

The doctor smiles, amused.

                        DOCTOR
              What was the first question I asked
              you?

                        NEMO (OFF)
              ... I don’t know.                                        *

                        DOCTOR
              Can you tell me how old you are?

                        NEMO (OFF)
              Thirty-six. I was born in 1972.

                        DOCTOR
              Would you mind looking at your
              hands? You don’t have to if you
              don’t want to.

Nemo’s hands come into the frame, into the subjective point of
view. His hands are old and wrinkled. They are shaking.

                        DOCTOR (CONT.)
              There’s a mirror in front of you,
              if you’d like to use it.

Nemo does not want to look. He hides his eyes.

                        DOCTOR (CONT.)
              What year is this?

                        NEMO
              This is 2008... I’m thirty-six, I
              was born February 9, 1972...

                        DOCTOR
              So I guess it’s your birthday.                           *

The doctor hands him a newspaper: it is a slim, lightweight liquid
crystal screen... Nemo looks at the date on the “newspaper” on
which text and animated images mingle. At the top we read
“February 9, 2092.” There is a picture of old Nemo on the front
page, above a headline that reads: “THE LAST MORTAL.”



                             - 3 -
                                                 "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NEMO
              I’m thirty-six! ... I’ve     got   to
              wake up! ... To wake up!                                 *

We hear an alarm clock going off.


5 - INT. ADULT NEMO’S BEDROOM — DAY

Nemo wakes with a start. His alarm clock is ringing. Nemo is
thirty-six. He catches his breath. His wife, ELISE, is sleeping
next to him. He parts the curtains.

                         ELISE
              Don’t,   Nemo ... The sun hurts my
              eyes.

He closes the curtains and goes into the bathroom. He turns on the
light. He looks at himself in the mirror, reassured.


Continued CREDITS run over:


6 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE — DAY

Music. Nemo is setting the breakfast table for five, his gestures
smooth and confident. He squeezes fresh orange juice, cooks some
eggs. He is in a good mood.

6A - He wakes his three children, JOYCE, age twelve, EVE, age
eight, and NOAH, age six. He gets them dressed, full of gusto. He
has them laughing.

                        NEMO
                 (yelling up the stairs)
              I’m driving the kids to      school.
              Noah, put on your coat.

6B - Nemo grabs the day’s mail as he goes out and looks through it
distractedly.


7 - EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF THE SCHOOL — DAY

Nemo drops his children off at school. They kiss good-bye. He
drives away.


8 - EXT. TOWN INTERSECTION — DAY

He looks at his watch. It is bizarrely divided into seven hours
instead of twelve. He looks at the clock on the church tower. It
also has a seven-hour face. Nemo is puzzled. In the sky are two
suns.



                              - 4 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



8A - Nemo turns a corner onto a wide avenue lined with tall
buildings. The end of the avenue is under construction. The
workmen look at him. The few cars on the road are all stopped.
Nemo gets out of his car. An electric billboard on a building
displays running text between flashing ads. The giant letters
spell     out:     “N...E...M . . . O ... ...T . . . U . . . R ...N...
...A...R...O...U...N...D...” Nemo watches the letters going by,
puzzled. Passersby stare at him. They walk strangely (backwards).
Nemo turns around and sees a tramp on the other side of the
street. The tramp’s face is Nemo’s. Nemo can’t believe his eyes.

                         NEMO
              Hey!

The tramp continues on his way, dragging his things behind him. He
goes into a building under construction. Nemo crosses the street
and enters the same building.

8B - A security guard tries to keep him out, but Nemo pushes past
him and goes inside.

There is nothing on the other side of the building. The façade is
a set, panels and planks held up by buttresses. Behind it lies a
beach, and then the sea. Nemo’s footsteps in the sand precede him.
He erases them as he walks. There are two suns.

8C - The sea is cut up into enormous blocks carried by
helicopters. The latter are assembling the sea. An alarm clock
goes off in the distance.


9 - INT. ADULT NEMO’S BEDROOM — DAY

Nemo wakes with a start. His alarm clock is going off. The scene
is identical. Elise is sleeping next to him. Nemo goes through the
same motions. He opens the curtains.

                         ELISE
              Don’t,   Nemo ... The sun hurts my
              eyes.

Nemo closes the curtains. We stay with Elise, who turns her back
to him. Her eyes are open. Tears run down her cheeks. Nemo does
not see her crying. He wants to turn on the light in the bathroom,
but bizarrely, the switch is no longer to the left of the door,
but to the right. He looks at himself in the mirror.


10 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE — DAY

Nemo is squeezing oranges. He is less lively than the previous
time. He drops an eggshell in the omelet.

10A - He wakes the three children. He gets them dressed.




                                - 5 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



Just as Nemo reaches the door to pick up the mail, he sees a big
envelope slip inside under it. Nemo looks at it, puzzled. He
glances through the window.

10B - Nemo just catches a glimpse of an old man dressed as a
mailman. The man looks like old Nemo. He is walking backwards,
“back through time.”

Nemo opens the envelope. He removes a photograph of himself with a
different haircut and different clothes, in a big garden with two
children and an unknown woman... Nemo doesn’t understand. His
children are running around him, yelling and playing. Nemo cannot
take his eyes off the picture.

                        NEMO
              Paul, keep it down!                                     *

The little boy, on whose T-shirt we read “Noah,” stops and looks
at his father.

                        NOAH
              My name’s not Paul!

                          NEMO
              Paul?

Nemo closes his eyes...


11 - EXT. NEMO AND JEAN’S GARDEN — DAY

                        PAUL (OFF)
              Daddy? ... Daddy?                                       *

                        JEAN (OFF)
              Paul, don’t wake your father!

Nemo opens his eyes. A little boy of seven, PAUL, is looking at
him. Nemo was asleep on a chaise lounge, beside a swimming pool in
a vast property, a glass of fruit juice in his hand. Nemo sees the
woman from the picture, JEAN, approaching.

                          NEMO
              Anna?

Nemo is terrified. The woman looks surprised.

                        JEAN
              It’s me, Jean...

                        NEMO
              Jean? ... Am I dead?




                                 - 6 -
                                                 "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        JEAN
              Go back and play, Paul.
                 (Paul wanders off)
              Who’s Anna?

                        NEMO
              Anna? ... I don’t        know   anyone                   *
              called Anna...                                           *

                        JEAN
              You’re still tired, Nemo. You need
              to rest.

She looks at him, a moment of silence.

                        JEAN (CONT.)
              I’ll turn the television on for                          *
              you. Call me if you need anything.
              I’m going inside, the sun hurts my
              eyes.

                        NEMO
              What?

                        JEAN
              The sun hurts my eyes.

She turns on a television sitting on a garden table. She turns it
to the stock market news and walks away. Nemo surfs.

11A - Images of a huge accident. Dozens of cars are burning on a
bridge. Nemo channel hops. He stops on a nature program. Lionesses *
are circling a gazelle. The lionesses move in closer, threatening.
In the background, to the same rhythm, dark silhouetted figures
approach Nemo.

                        JEAN (CONT.)
              Nemo, your friends are here, and my
              father, too...
                 (She kisses her father hello)
              Hello dad. He hasn’t said a thing.                       *

The silhouetted figures circle Nemo. Nemo doesn’t look at them.
One of the men kneels down and positions himself in Nemo’s field
of vision.

                       MAN IN BLACK
              Hello Nemo. How are you feeling                          *
              today?

                        NEMO
              ...

                        MAN IN BLACK
              Do you know who I am?



                               - 7 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



Nemo doesn’t answer. He tries to keep watching the television.

                        MAN IN BLACK (CONT.)
              We’re all very worried about you,
              Nemo. Everyone hopes you’ll be back
              in the office soon.

An older man, JEAN’S FATHER, leans toward Nemo with a serious air.

                        JEAN’S FATHER
              It’s collapsing. We’ve got to sell,
              Nemo. You’re the one who has the
              signature. We need the secret code.

Nemo doesn’t move a muscle.

                        JEAN’S FATHER (CONT.)
                 (aggravated)
              The code, Nemo... Do you remember
              the code?


12 - FLASH — EXT. STREET, ADULT ANNA — DAY

Bits of numbers. Then the number “12358” on the facade of a house.


13 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM — DAY

Old Nemo is sleeping. Sensors are hooked up to his forehead and
connected to a machine. Numbers run by. Needles are moving back
and forth, drawing peaks on the paper. Two white shadows approach
him.

                        DOCTOR (OFF)
              He’s dreaming.

Nemo’s eyeballs are agitated.


14 - EXT. TRAIN STATION PLATFORM — DAY

The feet of a running child. CHILD NEMO is SEVEN. He is running
down the platform, trying to catch a departing train.


15 - INT. CITY/MISC. — DAY

The image is broadcast on television. Clients in a café watch the
screen. Some hold their pet pigs on leashes.

15A - People on a train station platform watch the same images on
TV.




                                - 8 -
                                                 "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



15B - An overly made-up presenter dressed to the nines is smiling
above a multicolor flashing headline. He has a small pig on his        *
lap, a pink ribbon around its neck.                                    *

15B1 - Commercials run simultaneously in the        corners of   the
screen. The hospital is in the background.

                        PRESENTER                                      *
              This is Julian Marshall, live from                       *
              New-New-York Hospital. We’re about                       *
              to see the final episode in our                          *
              series “THE LAST MORTALS.” Mr.
              Nobody is almost 120 years old, and                      *
              has never been telomerized. Nor                          *
              does he have a marvelous stem-cell
              compatible pig. Live on WWB: Mr.
              Nobody will be the last man on
              earth to die of old age. MR.
              NOBODY, THE LAST MORTAL!

Booming jingle. Colored lights.

15c - A telephoto shot through a window of old Nemo on his
hospital bed. The glass undulates in the wind.


16 - INT. MISC. — DAY

A young couple watching TV...

16A - Police in a station watching the show...

16B - An old woman with her pig...

16C - A giant screen on top of a building transmitting the show...


17 - EXT. FAÇADE OF THE HOSPITAL — DAY

The presenter turns towards the psychiatrist.                          *

                        PRESENTER
              No trace of his identity has been                        *
              found in the national records.                           *
              Nothing about his past.

                        DOCTOR
              We don’t know who Mr. Nobody is.                         *
              Neit her does he. Our patient’s                          *
              memories are confused. But it is
              not unusual, at a certain stage of
              illness, for very old memories to
              reemerge in great detail.




                                - 9 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




18 - INT. OLD NEMO’S HOSPITAL ROOM — DAY

Old Nemo is watching television, stunned. He sees his own image
through the window. On the other side of the window, several
miniaturized cameras float in the air. Nemo presses a button. The
window becomes opaque, displaying a repeating image of the bottom
of the sea, like a screen-saver.


19 - EXT. TV IMAGE — DAY

                         PRESENTER
              Should Mr. Nobody be allowed to die
              a   natural   death?   Should   his
              existence     be     artificially
              prolonged?    Make your vote now.                     *
              Press    “X”     for    artificial                    *
              prolongation, “0” to let nature run
              its course. We’ll be back - after                     *
              this.                                                 *

The presenter is replaced by an ad for holidays on Mars.

19A - We see a smiling family racing across a red desert in a
futuristic vehicle. Bicycles are attached to the roof. They are
amazed by the landscape.

                        VOICE OVER
              You, too, can take a family                           *
              vacation on Mars, a treat for the                     *
              young and the old. Book before                        *
              Union Day and save up to sixty                        *
              thousand units!                                       *


20 - INT. TV NEWS EDITORIAL ROOM — NIGHT

The room is in a semi-darkness. Several silhouettes stand out
against big windows. We do not see their faces.

                        EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
              The guy’s pulling maximum ratings!                    *
              And we’ve got nothing on him! I                       *
              need    a   profile.    I need a                      *
              background.

                        YOUNG JOURNALIST
              He’s   been   in   that   hospital
              practically forever. No one knows
              who he is. I’ve checked it out.
              Never had a driver’s license. Never                   *
              had a phone line or electrical hook-
              up. Officially, he doesn’t exist.
              So they called him Mr. Nobody.                        *



                            - 10 -
                                               "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
              Look   harder, da mm it ! This guy                     *
              didn’t just come out of nowhere.


21 - INT. DOCTOR’S OFFICE — DAY

Old Nemo is once again sitting across from his doctor.

                          DOCTOR
              Le t ’ s tr y  something new. I’m                      *
              thinking of an old technique. I
              can’t    promise   anything. Maybe
              snatches of memory will come back,
              maybe nothing will happen. Are you
              willing to try?

Nemo agrees with a nod.

The doctor places a small shiny metallic sphere in front of Nemo’s
eyes, suspended in mid-air. Then it starts swinging, very close,
left to right, right to left...

                        DOCTOR’S VOICE (OFF)
              You are very relaxed... You hear                       *
              only my voice...                                       *

...21A - a child’s feet running down a station platform

...21B - tracks rushing past very close below us

...21C - branches swaying in the wind

...21D — a drop falling from a faucet...

...The pendulum swings in close-up.

...21E — the beam of a lighthouse beside the water lights us         *
regularly...

                        DOCTOR’S VOICE (OFF) (CONT.)
              ...your   eyelids   are   getting
              heavy... your arms and legs are                        *
              getting heavy... I’m going to count                    *
              to three... when I say three, you                      *
              will be asleep... One...

21C(cont.) - A swaying branch, seen through a window

...21F - we move back and enter a child’s room...

                          DOCTOR’S VOICE (OFF) (CONT.)
              ...two...

21G - A hand caressing a cheek... The face of a woman, ANNA...



                              - 11 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




22 - INT. SHOWROOM - DAY

                        DOCTOR’S VOICE (OFF)
              Remember the day you came here...
              Three. You’re sleeping.

Adult Nemo wakes with a start. He is lying on a bed and looking
around. We’ve never seen the room before, and it is extremely
clean and neat. Nemo notices a price tag on the bedside lamp. Nemo
takes his clothes from the chair. He gets dressed as he looks
around.

A couple enters the room, in their coats, holding a child by the
hand. They look at Nemo with surprise. We are in an immense
showroom of bedroom furniture. Distraught, Nemo walks through the
store, hurrying to the exit.


23 - EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF THE SHOWROOM — DAY

Nemo leaves the showroom. The street is strangely empty, not a
car, not a single passerby. Across the street, a swing hanging
from a tree branch swings from left to right. A movement much like
the pendulum.

                        DOCTOR’S VOICE (OFF)
              ...Remember even further back...                       *
              when I say three... one... two...                      *
              three.

Nemo looks up. In the sky, a small plane is pulling an advertising
streamer. Written on it: “SLEEP.”                                    *


24 - EXT. TRAIN STATION PLATFORM — DAY

Short flashes in the dark. Child Nemo is seven. He is running down
the platform trying to catch a departing train.

                        DOCTOR (OFF)
              Remember...


25 - INT. LIMBO — DAY

Everything is white. We can only make out a few forms in the
whiteness... Naked children wander about in slow motion... There
are pools of steaming water... Children’s heads emerge from the
water.

                        VOICE OF OLD NEMO (OFF)
              I can remember a long time ago...                      *
              long before my birth...                                *




                            - 12 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        VOICE OF CHILD NEMO (OFF)
                 (The voices overlap, slightly
                  out of sync)
              ...long before my birth... I was                        *
              waiting with those who are not yet                      *
              born. When we’re not born yet, we                       *
              know everything...

A child is seated in the whiteness. He is waiting. It is child
Nemo. We approach his mouth.

                        CHILD NEMO
              ...Everything that will happen.

He has no cleft on his upper lip. Other children are wandering
around. A unicorn passes by. A light approaches some children, who
look up.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              When it’s your turn, the Angels of                      *
              Oblivion   place a finger on your                       *
              mouth. Shhh. It leaves a mark on
              the upper lip. It means that you’ve
              forgotten    everything.   But the                      *
              angels missed me.                                       *

Two angels fly above the children, and place a finger to their        *
lips, one after the other. When the finger is removed, a shallow      *
vertical cleft has appeared on the upper lip. The Angle of
Oblivion forgets Nemo. Nemo’s face plunges into the water with
those of the other children. Everything turns white.                  *


26 - EXT. SKY — DAY

The clouds part, allowing us to see the earth below...

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              Then you have to find a daddy and a
              mummy. It’s not easy to choose.


27 - INT. MISC. — DAY

A series of interviews follows, like a casting call. Couples of
every kind, sitting on their sofas, talking to the camera.

27A - A chic, overly smiley couple:

                       SMILEY COUPLE WOMAN
              They’re so cute when they’re
              small...

                        SMILEY COUPLE MAN
              ...with those little shoes...



                            - 13 -
                                                 "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                          SMILEY COUPLE WOMAN
              We’d like     him to be a tennis
              champion.

27B - A shy couple is trying to control a struggling little boy.
They spank him.

                        SHY COUPLE WOMAN
              It would be nice for the older one
              not to be all alone...

27C - A sad couple. The man is drunk.

                        SAD COUPLE WOMAN
              I think it would help my husband if
              we had a child. We’d call him
              George. Right, George? We had a
              dog, but it died.

27D - Two men holding hands.

                        MAN
              It’s an important experience.

27E - A couple of old Texans with cowboy hats.                         *

                        OLD TEXAN MAN
              Blond an’ blue-eyed. That’s all I’m
              askin’.

27F - An Eskimo couple speaks Eskimo. We understand nothing.

27G - A teenage couple.

                        TEENAGE GIRL
              It’s not that we want a kid, but we
              slept together.

27H - A disillusioned couple.

                        DISILLUSIONED MAN
              ...It’s normal to think about
              children when you reach a certain
              age, for women at least.

                        DISILLUSIONED WOMAN
              It is the meaning of...

                        DISILLUSIONED MAN
                 (interrupting her)                                    *
              ...of life. I hadn’t finished,
              darling. It is the meaning of life.

27I - An ordinary couple looks at the camera. They shrug, not
knowing what to say. They say nothing. They are holding hands.



                               - 14 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              In the end, I chose them. Because
              the lady smelled nice. And the man
              said:

                        FATHER
              Well, I can tell you how we met. It
              was meant to be. Have you heard of
              the butterfly effect?


28 - EXT. JAPAN — DAY

It is springtime in Japan. A few Japanese are walking through a
park. A butterfly is perched on a flower. It flaps its wings and
flies away. The wind blows gently through the leaves of a tree.      *

28A - Clouds move in the sky. The air current merges with others
from the sea...


29 - EXT. OCEAN — DAY

...We are flying above the ocean, among the clouds... The clouds
merge with other clouds. The weather becomes stormy...


30 - EXT. CHILD NEMO’S STREET — DAY

...We descend over a small town in England. It is autumn. A leaf
twirls, floats over the rooftops... We follow it.

30A - It flies over NEMO’S FATHER. A young woman is going the
other way, NEMO’S MOTHER. The leaf lands right at Nemo’s father’s
feet, and he slips and falls. The young woman runs to help him get
up. They look into each other’s eyes. Love at first sight. A bolt
of lighting in the sky.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              Once upon a time there was a daddy
              and a mummy named the daddy and the
              mummy. They found a cute little
              baby and called it the cute little
              baby.


31 - ENDOSCOPIC SHOT

The face of the fœtus, curled up on itself. It opens its eyes.




                            - 15 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




32 - MODEL

A model of child Nemo’s street. Pretty little houses that look
alike, each with its own yard. A child’s hand positions a tiny
car. A bawling baby.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              The little baby was born there. He
              was born that day and not another.
              His parents were those parents.
              Why? Because that’s the way it is.
              The baby can cry outloud , but it                       *
              change these facts.                                     *
              “From sperm to worm.” His daddy and
              his mummy live at number 7.

The number “7” on the wall of the house.


33 - INT. CHILD NEMO’S HOUSE — DAY

Baby Nemo looks at his mummy. His mummy hides behind a bedsheet.
He can’t see her anymore, and waits. His mummy say “Peek-a-boo!”
The baby laughs.

33A - A hairbrush. The mother’s lips, to which she is applying
lipstick. The mother is singing a song. The baby’s hand lifting
the father’s sleeve in order to touch his watch.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              The mummy has a brush for her hair
              and lipstick for her lips. She
              smells good. She sings a little
              song: “Eenie meen ie miney moe ,
              catch a tiger by the toe...” The
              daddy has a watch and hair on his
              arm. The watch goes tick -to ck.
              Daddy catches flies.

33B - A fly on the table. The father’s hand approaches slowly,
then grabs the insect just as it is about to fly away. The father
opens the window and sets it free outside.

                         CHILD NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              Everything we see exists. We can
              see it. The table is called
              “table,” the chair is called
              “chair.” We can see them. The
              little baby can see his daddy and                       *
              his mummy.                                              *

33C - The father and the mother lean over us.




                            - 16 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        CHILD NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              I can see mummy’s eyes, but I can’t
              see my eyes. The little baby can
              see his hands but he cannot see
              himself. So does he really exist?
              ... Do I really exist?

33D - The baby’s hands seen from a subjective point of view. Nemo
is looking at his shadow on the ground, moving at the same time he
does. The shadow moves on the floor, on the walls. He tries to
step on it. He pinches himself. Then he bites his mother’s arm.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              If the baby pinches himself, it
              hurts. If he bites mummy, it
              doesn’t hurt.

He looks at the reflection of his face in a dirty mirror. The baby
takes his first steps, then falls down. The mother applauds.
Thrilled, the baby lets himself fall again.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              If the baby falls, the mother claps
              her hands. She says, “Bravo.”

33E - The mother falls down the stairs with a basket full of
laundry. She hurts herself. The baby claps. He gets a spanking.

33F - FLASH: Anna, age five, swinging on a swing.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              Why am I me and not someone else?
              Why does what exists exist? Why do
              we remember the past but not the
              future? When you ask mummy, she
              says...

33G - The mother, overwhelmed by house-cleaning, says to NEMO (AGE
FIVE) as she vacuums:

                        MOTHER (VOICE OF CHILD NEMO)
              Stop asking “Why?” all of the time!                    *

The father puts on his hat and coat and leaves the house. Child
Nemo opens the door to make sure his father is no longer there,
then runs to the television and turns it on.

33H - The smiling image of his father appears on television. He is
presenting the weather forecast in a playful voice.

                        FATHER
              An anticyclone moving in from the
              Azores tomorrow will bring clear
              skies through the weekend, so get                      *
              those barbecues out!                                   *



                            - 17 -
                                               "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




34 - EXT. CHILD NEMO’S STREET (1977) — DAY

Thunderclap in a grey sky. Nemo is walking down the sidewalk
holding his father’s hand. It suddenly starts pouring. The father
opens an umbrella. They pass some women neighbours on the opposite
sidewalk as they bring in a table and chairs, leaving the barbecue
in the rain. The father greets the neighbors politely as they
stare daggers at him. The father smiles self-consciously.


35 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM — NIGHT

The door opens quietly. A shadow steps furtively into the room and
closes the door. Old Nemo is asleep, hooked up to a life-support *
equipment. The shadow approaches him.

                          JOURNALIST
                Pssst... Sir...

The man clumsily knocks over a game of chess on the bedside table.
The noise wakes Nemo up. He finds a timid young man in front of *
him, an old tape recorder slung over his shoulder.

                          JOURNALIST (CONT.)
                It’s       okay...  I...   I’m  a                     *
                journalist...   The hospital won’t                    *
                allow interviews... I’d just like                     *
                to ask you a few questions...

Nemo stares at him.

                          JOURNALIST (CONT.)
                A friend of mine’s a nurse here .                     *
                They helped me get in. My paper                       *
                really wants me to get something. A
                biography, just a few dozen lines.

                          OLD NEMO
                What time is it?

                          JOURNALIST
                   (looking at his watch)
                Fourteen twelve.

The clock    on the wall shows seven hours and not twelve. The
journalist   puts his old reel-to-reel tape recorder on the table.
He loads a   reel of tape. He holds out the microphone to Nemo. The
journalist   presses the “record” button...

                          OLD NEMO
                Where did you find that?




                              - 18 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        JOURNALIST
              I... I borrowed it from the
              university museum, but it still
              works. So. Um... Here we are.

                        OLD NEMO
              I’ve got nothing to say to you. I’m                   *
              Mr. Nobody. The man who doesn’t
              exist. An old grump who mixes
              everything up. Go away.

                        JOURNALIST
              Do you remember what the world was
              like before Quasi-Immortality?

                        OLD NEMO
              What?

                        JOURNALIST
              Telomerization. Endless renewal of
              cells. What was it like when humans
              were mortal?

                        OLD NEMO
              I have no idea. There were cars
              that    polluted,    we   smoked
              cigarettes, we ate meat. We did                       *
              everything we can’t do in th is                       *
              dump. It was wonderful. Most of the                   *
              time nothing happened. Just like in                   *
              a French movie.

                        JOURNALIST
              And... sexually? Before sex became                    *
              obsolete?                                             *

                        OLD NEMO                                    *
              You don’t need sex anymore? ... We
              screwed.   People   were   always
              screwing. We fell in love.

                        JOURNALIST
              The police have investigated you,                     *
              and they’ve found nothing. But they
              didn’t check the paper archives. It                   *
              took a little patience...                             *

He takes a paper from his pocket and unfolds it.

                        JOURNALIST (CONT.)
              ...but I found this. It’s from a                      *
              local paper in Ontario.




                            - 19 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



He holds out a photocopy of a newspaper article. The picture shows
a car being hauled by a crane from a river. We see the portrait of
a man, PETER.

                        JOURNALIST (CONT.)
              That is you, isn’t it?

                        NEMO
              I don’t know. It doesn’t look like
              me. What time is it?

                        JOURNALIST
                 (looking at his watch)
              Fourteen   thirteen.   Look: “Nemo
              Nobody.” The name matches. It
              appears you died in a car accident
              in 2008. Your car was found at the
              bottom of a river.


36 - FLASH

The body of adult Nemo in the morgue. He is wearing just one shoe,
which is too small. A police officer is smoking a cigarette next
to him. The scene is shot in reverse, the smoke going into the
cigarette. A woman identifies the body. It is Jean. She is holding
a handkerchief. A tear goes back up to her eye.


37 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM — NIGHT

(cont.)

                        OLD NEMO
              I am alive...aren’t I?                                 *

                        JOURNALIST
              You were a scientist specializing
              in chaos theory... space-time, the
              multiverse. You had your own TV                        *
              show.

Nemo’s face contorts.


38 - EXT. UNDERWATER — DAY

A picture of adult Anna in a small frame turns floating inside the
car, underwater... bubbles rise to the surface... a hand struggles *
underwater... underwater views of algae swaying gently to the *
music... fish swim past... one of the fish comes very close to *
look at us...




                             - 20 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




39 - INT. UNDETERMINED — DAY

A trout with almonds on a plate.

                        OLD NEMO (OFF)
              I always liked fish. I never
              thought that one day it would like
              me, too.


40 - EXT. UNDERWATER — DAY

...the fish swims at us, its mouth wide open, ready to eat us.        *


41 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM — NIGHT

                        JOURNALIST
              Do you really remember nothing?

In lieu of answering, Nemo closes his eyes. The journalist takes
out a portable VCR and opens it in front of Nemo.

                        JOURNALIST (CONT.)
              I found this, too.

He presses play, and a scratchy image appears onscreen. Old Nemo
watches, fascinated.

It is an educational program.

41A - Peter is speaking to the camera. Behind him is a big
constellation of stars.

41B - We see a simulation of the Big Bang.

                        PETER
              What was there before the Big Bang?                     *
              There was no “before” because
              before the Big Bang, time did not
              exist. Time is a result of the
              expansion of the universe itself.
              But what will happen when the
              universe has finished expanding,
              and the movement is reversed? What                      *
              will be the nature of time?                             *

Fuzz. The image disappears in the interference. The sound becomes
inaudible.

                        JOURNALIST
              That is you, isn’t it?




                               - 21 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                          OLD NEMO
              I’m Ne m o Nobody: the man who
              doesn’t exist. A crazy old fool who                    *
              pi s s e s himself. What are you
              looking for? There’s nothing to
              find. What time is it?                                 *


42- INT. PSYCHIATRIST’S OFFICE — DAY

The small pendulum swings back and forth in front of Old Nemo’s
eyes...


43 - INT. TELEVISION STUDIO — DAY

The same program as before, but this time adult Nemo is the
presenter. The text runs over a teleprompter.

                        ADULT NEMO
              But what will happen when the
              universe has finished expanding and
              the movement is reversed?

On a control monitor, images of galaxies ceasing to expand and
beginning to contract.

                        ADULT NEMO (OFF)(CONT.)
              What will be the nature of time?
              Will it reverse?                                       *

43A - Image of a vase breaking on the floor, then, in reverse, the
pieces coming back together...

                         ADULT NEMO (OFF)(CONT.)
              If string theory is correct, the
              universe possesses nine spatial
              dimensions    and   one    temporal
              dimension, ten dimensions in all.
              We can     imagine that     in   the
              beginning, all of the dimensions
              were twisted together. During the                      *
              Big Bang, three spatial dimensions -                   *
              the ones we know as: height, width,                    *
              and depth - and one temporal                           *
              dimension - what we know as ‘time’ -                   *
              were     deployed. The other six                       *
              remained    miniscule,   wound    up
              together. If we live in a universe
              of wound dimensions, how do we                         *
              distinguish between illusion and
              reality? Time as we know it is a
              dimension we experience only in one                    *
              direction.
                         (MORE)



                            - 22 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11

                         ADULT NEMO (OFF)(CONT.) (cont'd)
              But, what if one of the additional                     *
              dimensions   wasn’t   spatial  but
              temporal?


44 - INT. CHILD NEMO’S HOUSE — DAY

The hand of baby Nemo pushes a plate to the edge of the table. It
falls and breaks. The baby mixing mashed potatoes and tomato sauce
in his plate.

44A - The father smoking a cigarette. Wafts of smoke dissipating
in the air.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              If you break a plate, it’s broken
              forever. If you mix the mashed
              potatoes and the sauce, you can’t
              separate them later. It’s forever.
              The smoke comes out of daddy’s
              cigarette, but it never goes back
              in.

44B - The big hand on the living room clock moves forward a notch.
We see a cog turning another cog, the mechanism grinding. We hear
all kinds of tick-tocks.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              We cannot go back.


45 - EXT. PASTRY SHOP WINDOW (1980) — DAY

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              That’s why it’s hard to choose. You
              have to make the right choice.

Nemo is eight. He is glued to a pastry shop window. He is holding
a coin in his hand. His eyes go back and forth between the Danish
and the chocolate éclair. He can’t decide.


46 - EXT. CHILD NEMO’S STREET — DAY

Nemo is on his way home. He is still clutching his coin. He walks
past three little girls his age leaning against an iron gate who
are watching him: ANNA, ELISE, and JEAN.

One is wearing a yellow dress, the next one a blue dress, and the
last one a pink dress. All three of them smile at him, and all
three are pretty. Nemo blushes.

                        ANNA
              Hello, Nemo.                                           *




                               - 23 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NEMO
              Hello, Anna.                                           *

                          ELISE
              Hi, Nemo.

                        NEMO
              Hello, Elise.                                          *

                        JEAN
              Hello, Nemo.                                           *

                        NEMO
              Hello, Jean.                                           *


47 - INT. CHURCH — DAY

We see three weddings of adult Nemo. Three times he kisses the
bride after slipping a ring on her finger. Once Anna, once Elise,
once Jean, all now adults.


48 - EXT. CHILD NEMO’S STREET — DAY

Nemo keeps looking back at the little girls as he walks away. Then
he looks at the coin he couldn’t decide how to spend. He tosses it
in the air, heads or tails.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              As long as you don’t choose,
              everything remains possible.


49 - INT. CHILD NEMO’S HOUSE — DAY

Nemo and his father are looking at the sky through a telescope.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)                             *
              Daddy says you can predict exactly
              where Mars will be in the sky, even
              in a hundred years.


50 - INT. CHILD NEMO’S ROOM — MORNING

It is morning. Nemo is sleeping, his eyes closed. Gently, he
starts to levitate, a foot above his bed.


51 - VISION

A short flash: a toy car races down a hill and runs into a
stroller. It is a scale model.




                               - 24 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




52 - INT. CHILD NEMO’S ROOM - MORNING

A yellow stain appears on the sheets. He is peeing. Nemo opens his
eyes and cries out. He is no longer levitating. He gets up. He
goes to see the little car near his electric train. He looks at
his soaked pajama pants. He dresses quickly.


53 - EXT. STREET — DAY

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              But the funny thing is that daddy                      *
              doesn’t know what will happen to
              him two minutes from now.

Nemo’s father parks the car at the end of the street. The street
is on a hill. The father bites into a cookie. He stops chewing and
spits something out, examining it as he gets out of the car. He
forgets to put on the handbrake. He removes a piece of eggshell
from his mouth. Behind him, the car slowly starts moving. Nemo
comes running down the street in the opposite direction.

                         NEMO
              Daddy!


54 - INT. INDUSTRIAL CHICKEN BARN — DAY

We see a hen laying an egg... The egg lands with many others.


55 - EXT. STREET — DAY

...The car continues rolling down the hill, faster and faster. A
little further down the road, a woman is crossing the street         *
pushing a baby carriage. Nemo’s father is still looking at the
piece of eggshell on his fingertip...


56 - INT. COOKIE FACTORY — DAY

A worker breaks an egg. A small piece of shell floats in the
whites. The eggs get mixed with flour and sugar. The cookies come
out of the oven and are packaged.


57 - EXT. STREET — DAY

The father looks up and sees his car rolling down the hill at top
speed. He screams. The woman in the street pushing the carriage
sees the car and screams in terror. The woman and the carriage are
run over by the car. The father looks on with horror. Nemo reaches
him, too late.




                                - 25 -
                                                  "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




58 - EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

58A - Black and white archival footage. A research lab full of
papers and two old blinking computers. A young man is checking the
results being printed out.

                             ADULT NEMO (OFF)
              Edward        Lorenz,     a  meteorology                  *
              analyst, had a computer simulate                          *
              weather forecasts using simple
              equations relating air and water
              movements,          heat,   barometric
              pr e s s u r e . . . One day in 1961,                     *
              during the preparation of a series                        *
              of weather reports, Lorenz took a                         *
              shortcut, rounding his data up to                         *
              the third decimal, instead of the                         *
              usual sixth decimal place, assuming                       *
              that the difference — one for a                           *
              thousand — was of no importance.                          *

58B - A calm sea. A storm at sea.

The text runs over the teleprompter in front of Nemo.

                         ADULT NEMO                                     *
              When he returned an hour later, he
              noticed that the forecast, which
              should have been identical to the
              preceding    ones,    followed  an
              evolution ever more divergent,
              until there was no longer any
              resemblance. Miniscule changes of a
              thousandth    of   a    degree,  a
              thousandth of a millibar, in
              association, caused enormous change
              in the end results: on one hand,
              perfect calm, on the other, a
              storm.

58C - A motionless butterfly on a flower.

                           ADULT NEMO (CONT.)
              This is     known as the “BUTTERFLY
              EFFECT.”   In a chaotic and unstable
              system,    a butterfly beating its
              wings in   Japan will perhaps cause a
              storm in   Europe.

58D - A Japanese man fanning himself as he watches the motionless
butterfly.

58E - Clouds moving in the sky.




                              - 26 -
                                                 "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



58F - The hen laying an egg.

58G - The father biting into the cookie. The woman with the
carriage being hit by the car. The father looking horrified.

Adult Nemo, presenting the program, looks into the camera:

                         ADULT NEMO (CONT.)
              “Pigeon   Superstition”   and  the
              “Butterfly     Effect”    are good                       *
              illustrations of our contradictory                       *
              state: we only accept simple                             *
              explanations, although the universe                      *
              is complex.


59 - INT. CHILD NEMO’S HOUSE — DAY

The mother is setting the table while Nemo is trying to explain
something to her.

                        MOTHER
              That’s not possible. No one knows
              the future.

                        NEMO
              But I can remember it.

                       MOTHER
              We remember the      past,   not   the
              future.

                        NEMO
              But me, I can. Sometimes things
              happen and I have the feeling that
              they’ve already happened before.

                        MOTHER
              That’s called déjà vu. It happens
              to everyone from time to time.

                        NEMO
              No, it’s because of the Angels of                        *
              Oblivion. They didn’t put their                          *
              finger on me. You can’t understand.

59A - The father is sitting in an armchair, prostrate, motionless.
A fly lands on the chair, next to his hand. He doesn’t notice it.
The fly climbs his hand, strolling about without provoking any
reaction from the father. Nemo watches him.




                               - 27 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




60 - INT. SWIMMING POOL — DAY

Nemo is in swimming class. He’s the one having the most trouble
swimming. Nemo sinks, flailing desperately as he tries to grab the
aluminum pole the instructor refuses to put within his reach. Nemo
coughs up water, cries. A whistle blows. The boys get out of the
pool to go get dressed. The instructor stops them to let a group
of girls go past. The boys all wait, eyes riveted on the girls. *
Nemo is hypnotized by Anna.

The boys leave the pool. The locker room door opens a crack. Nemo,
hiding, alone, watches Anna. She swims like a goddess. He watches
her dive from the twelve-foot board. She lands perfectly and swims
the crawl with perfect grace. She is magnificent. Nemo is lost in
wonder. Anna climbs gracefully out of the water and dries her
hair. Their eyes meet for an instant. Nemo is petrified.


61 - INT. SWIMMING POOL — DAY

Everyone has left. The pool is empty, even the lifeguard is gone.
Nemo emerges from his hiding place. He is alone. He approaches the
water. He hesitates. He climbs onto the diving board, twelve feet
high. He is afraid of heights. He walks slowly to the end of the
board. He jumps.

He belly-flops onto the water. He is underwater, struggling.
Bubbles escape from his mouth. He tries to grab something, but
cannot. He is drowning. We hear a muffled scream. He sinks to the
bottom.


62 - FLASH

Underwater, prisoner in his car, adult Nemo struggles. Bubbles
escape from his mouth. He sees light above him.

62A - Another flash. Under the water, Jean’s face diving toward
us.


63 - INT. SWIMMING POOL — DAY

The lifeguard suddenly dives in next to child Nemo and pulls him
to the surface.

Nemo is lying on the ground next to the pool. The lifeguard
performs artificial respiration . Nemo comes to, coughing. He        *
breathes.




                            - 28 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




64 - EXT. WOODS — DAY

64bis - Exhausted, Nemo gets off a bus. He is going home, his
swimming bag over his shoulder.

He goes past a wooded area. He notices his mother, or at least he
thinks he recognizes her. We can make her out about one hundred
yards away, behind some branches. She is taking a stroll, looking
all around. Nemo hides. He moves toward her, avoiding being
noticed.

He reaches a pond. He hears whispered voices. He looks through the
branches: he sees his mother kiss a man he doesn’t know. He
freezes. The man walks off in one direction. The mother adjusts
her jacket and leaves in the other direction. Nemo waits without
moving. He is as white as a sheet.

64A - Nemo is walking through the woods. He is looking for the
man. He heads to the edge of the pond. He stops. A gust of wind
rustles the leaves. Anna is sitting on a floating dock, throwing
stones into the water. Nemo crouches down and watches her. A voice
makes him jump.

                        ANNA’S FATHER
              Okay, Anna, let’s go.

The man who was kissing Nemo’s mother comes over to Anna. Anna
takes her father’s hand and they leave together.


65 - FLASH

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              Then the daddy and the mummy kissed
              all day long.                                          *

A short flash: in the living room, the father and mother are
fighting.

65A - A vase breaks.


66 - INT. ADULT NEMO’S ROOM (2006) — NIGHT

Adult Nemo wakes in the dark. He turns toward a feminine shape:
adult Anna is sleeping next to him. They curl up in each other’s
arms.


67 - EXT. TRAIN STATION — DAY

The mother, the father, and Nemo are on the platform of a small
train station. They are waiting. The mother is holding her
suitcase. The father looks distraught. His eyes are red.



                            - 29 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11


They each hold one of Nemo’s hands. Nemo looks at his father, then
at his mother. They don’t look at each other. The mother strokes
Nemo’s hair, kisses him. The train pulls into the station.

                        MOTHER
              So, Nemo? Have you made up your                        *
              mind? Do you want to come with me,                     *
              or do you want to stay with your
              father?

Nemo squeezes his parents’ hands. The train stops. The mother lets
go of Nemo’s hand and takes a few steps toward the train. The
mother climbs aboard. She waves goodbye. The ticket inspector
closes all of the doors but one, the one where the mother is
standing. The train starts moving. Nemo lets go of his father’s
hand and runs as fast as he can down the platform. He is running
alongside the train. The mother reaches her arms out to him
through the open door. Nemo looks back at his father. He
hesitates. He is halfway between his father and his mother. A
urine stain spreads over his pants.

                           MOTHER
              Run, Nemo!

The mother reaches for Nemo as he runs, trying to catch the train.

                           FATHER
              Nemo!

Nemo turns back, hesitates. The mother grabs Nemo and pulls him
into the train. The disconcerted ticket man helps her, then closes
the door. Nemo looks at the silhouette of his father as the train
pulls away.


68 - EXT. TRAIN STATION — DAY

...Repetition of the same scene. The train is leaving the station.
Nemo is still holding his father’s hand. He hesitates, then lets
go and starts running down the platform. He stops for a moment,
looks at his father, as if regretfully, looks at the departing
train. He runs again, looking at his father as if with regret. He
reaches the train. The mother holds her arms out.

                           FATHER
              NEMO!

Nemo slows down, turns back toward his father. He stops at the end
of the platform and watches the train move away. He has lost a
shoe. He looks at his pants which are soaked.                        *

His father comes running and takes Nemo in his arms. He tries to
console him. He puts Nemo’s shoe back on and the two of them leave
for home. In the distance:




                               - 30 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NEMO
              Daddy, is it my fault?

                        FATHER
              Of course not. It’s my fault.                          *


69 - INT. DOCTOR’S OFFICE — DAY

The doctor is hypnotizing old Nemo. The pendulum swings in front
of his eyes...


70 - EXT./INT. MISC. — DAY/NIGHT

We see brief flashes...flashes of the lights of a passing
train...the tracks rushing by under the locomotive

...70A - a metronome

...70B - branches swaying in the wind

...70C - a swaying swing...


71 - INT. TRAIN — DAY

Nemo is in the train, with his mother. He presses himself against    *
her. He is watching the landscape go by.

71A - Through the window he sees train tracks crossing, joining up
with other tracks, separating. A tangle of possible destinations.


72 - MODEL — DAY

A toy airplane held in a child’s hand. The plane flies over a map.
On the map, the letters O-C-E-A-N pass by. The plane flies over
North America.


73 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — EVENING

73BIS - Through the window we have a view of a big North American
city.

The mother and Nemo are in an apartment that is not yet fully
furnished. She unwraps a lamp and puts it in place.


74 - EXT. TRAIN STATION PLATFORM — DAY

Nemo is running after the train that is taking his mother away.
His running feet. His shoelace breaks. He starts to lose his shoe.
The train picks up speed, his mother moves away.



                              - 31 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11


Nemo stumbles, steps on his shoelace. He stays on the platform
with his father. We follow a butterfly circling up into the sky.


75 - INT. SHOE FACTORY — DAY                                         *

A butterfly flutters past the window. In the office of a shoe        *
factory, the director is studying several grades of shoelace
presented to him by a supplier.

                        SUPPLIER (STRONGLY ACCENTED)                 *
              I can give you a good deal on this                     *
              type of shoelace.                                      *

The director pulls firmly on the lace. It breaks.

                        SUPPLIER (CONT.)                             *
              ...Very good deal.                                     *


76 - EXT. FATHER’S YARD — DAY

A wind gauge stops turning. Utter calm. Nemo is in the yard,         *
observing his father. Nemo’s father is watching the sky. He holds    *
his paintbrushes and starts painting the clouds, carefully
reproducing what he sees. When the father looks up, the clouds
have changed shape and position. He tries to make corrections, to
paint faster. He can’t.

The father is sitting on a chair in the middle of the garden. He
is looking at the sky above him, a camera in hand. Nemo looks at     *
him. His father uses a cane to get up.


77 - EXT. FATHER’S YARD — DAY

The father spreads the pictures out on the table. He takes his
paintbrushes and tries to reproduce the clouds on canvas, but it     *
doesn’t work.


78 - EXT. FATHER’S YARD — DAY

The father uses turpentine to erase his painting, scraping the
paint off with a knife. He starts again from scrap. He looks at      *
the clouds, holding his paintbrush.                                  *

78A - The clouds move too fast.


79 - INT. FATHER’S HOUSE — EVENING

The father opens a broom closet and throws his unfinished painting
inside. He slams the door.




                               - 32 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




80 - EXT. FATHER’S STREET - DAY

Nemo is standing on the corner of the street where he lives with
his father. He is watching a truck being loaded by movers. Anna
and Harry are watching them work. The movers close the truck. Anna
and her father get into the car and drive off.                     *


81 - INT. NEMO’S ROOM IN HIS MOTHER’S HOUSE (1980/1984) — DAY

Nemo, still eight years old, wakes up in his room in his mother’s
apartment. He lies back down and closes his eyes. The camera
explores the objects in his room: the toys... his desk... We hear
his mother’s voice calling him.

                        MOTHER (OFF)
              Nemo!

The camera continues exploring the contents of the room: pictures
on the wall... teenage toys... books about the planets... We
return, after a complete tour of the room, to the sleeping Nemo in
his bed. He is FOURTEEN YEARS OLD. His mother’s voice wakes him.
She sticks her head into the room.

                        MOTHER
              Bye, sweetheart, I’m off to work.
              Don’t be late for school.


82 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — EVENING

The mother opens the door to her apartment and hangs up her coat.
She takes off her nurse’s smock.

                        MOTHER
              Nemo... It’s me.

In the foreground, teenage Nemo is lying in a pool of blood,
motionless, his eyes wide open. His mother does not yet see him.     *
She walks forward, sees Nemo dead on the floor, then puts away the
groceries.

                        MOTHER (CONT.)
              I bet you haven’t done your
              homework. Hurry up and finish, I’ve
              invited someone for dinner. And I’m
              counting on you to keep your mouth
              shut.

The mother disappears. No one is there. Nemo, deathly pale, still
doesn’t move. Then he gets up, picks up a bottle of ketchup, wipes
the ketchup from his neck and his shirt.




                            - 33 -
                                                  "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




83 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — EVENING

Nemo is sitting at the table. Laughter, small talk. The mother has
invited Harry, the man Nemo saw her with in the woods. Harry is
pretending to be at ease. Nemo stares at him without blinking.
Harry tries to smile, but does not get a smile in return.

                       MOTHER
              Nemo, don’t stare at people like
              that.

                        HARRY
              It’s no problem.

                        MOTHER
              He has a gift for making people
              uncomfortable.

                        HARRY
              It’s nothing.

                        NEMO
              It will happen on a Saturday. The
              sun will be shining. You will be                          *
              behind the wheel of your car. You
              are whistling. You won’t see the
              crossroads. All of a sudden, a
              butcher’s truck will appear on your                       *
              right and you’ll be crushed.


84 - EXT. COUNTRY ROAD — DAY

Flash. Harry behind the wheel of his car, whistling. A tractor
pulls in on his right. Sounds of an accident. The dashboard clock
shatters.


85 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — DAY (CONT.)

Nemo is staring at Harry, who is as white as a sheet. Nemo has a
wet patch on his pants.                                                 *

                        MOTHER
              You’re not funny.
                 (to the guest)
              Nemo thinks he can        predict   the
              future.

                        NEMO
              I can. I predicted dad’s accident.




                               - 34 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                         MOTHER
              I’ve always wondered if you’re not
              the one who took off the hand
              brake. No one can predict the
              future. No one knows what’s going
              to happen.

                        NEMO
              I do.

The mother slaps Nemo in the face.                                     *

                        MOTHER
              If you could, you would have known
              you were going to get that.

                        NEMO
              I knew you’d say that.


86 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — NIGHT

                        MOTHER
              I’m so sorry...

The mother is at the door. Harry is        leaving. We   hear   them
whispering. The mother closes the door.


87 - INT. NEMO’S ROOM IN HIS MOTHER’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Nemo is in his pajamas, standing on the window sill, facing the        *
void. The mother comes into his room. She is undisturbed by the
danger of the situation.

                        MOTHER
              Are you proud of yourself?

Nemo lets go and leans into the void.

                        MOTHER (CONT.)
              Why do you systematically ruin
              everything I... Don’t you think I
              have a right to live, too?

Nemo falls into the void. His mother looks at the empty window.
She lights a cigarette.

                        MOTHER (CONT.)
              You could have stayed with     your
              father if you’d wanted to.

87A - We pass through the window. Nemo is crouched three feet
below, on a terrace adjoining the window. The fall was without         *
danger.



                               - 35 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




88 - EXT. WOODS — DAY

Police officers are searching some bushes. They find Nemo’s body.
He is missing a shoe. The scene is shot backwards, all the
movements are in reverse.                                           *


89 - INT. CITY SCHOOL — DAY

Fourteen-year-old Nemo is in a classroom, in the city where he
lives with his mother.

                        TEACHER
              Let me introduce a new student in
              our class. Her name is Anna.

Anna comes into the room. She smiles, a bit uncomfortable.
Whispers. Nemo looks at her, open-mouthed. Anna turns around and
catches Nemo’s eyes. They look at each other without saying a
word.


90 - EXT. BUS/COUNTRY ROAD — DAY

Sitting in the school bus, Nemo is shaken by a bump. He is with *
his class. Everyone is laughing and singing. It is a school
outing, and the children have overnight bags with them. Nemo isn’t
singing. A few seats away, Anna is laughing with her friends. She
turns around. She smiles and comes over to him.

                        ANNA
              Hi. Do you remember me? I’m Anna.

                        NEMO
              Yes.

                        ANNA
              My father knows your mother.

                        NEMO
              Yes.

                        ANNA
              Have you been here long?

                        NEMO
              No.

Nemo is too intimidated to answer anything but yes or no. The
silence finally becomes embarrassing, and Anna gets up and goes
back to her friends.




                               - 36 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




91 - EXT. BEACH — DAY

The young teens are running out of beach huts. They are wearing *
swimsuits. Nemo also comes onto the beach, wrapped up in his
towel. He is wearing a ridiculous swimsuit. He sits down, away *
from the group. He takes a camera from his bag and takes a picture
of the beach in front of him. After a moment, Anna comes and sits
next to him. He blushes. She smiles at him. A moment of silence.
Anna stands up and turns toward him.

                        ANNA
              You gonna swim?

Nemo doesn’t answer. She takes him by the hand and pulls him.       *

                        ANNA (CONT.)
              Come on. The water’s nice.

                         NEMO
              No, I...

He clams up and stares straight ahead, looking sullen. Anna looks
at the water and waves to her friends who are calling to her.

                        ANNA
              Come swimming with us. They’re my
              friends, come on...

                        NEMO
              They’re jerks. I don’t go swimming                    *
              with jerks.                                           *

Anna is cross. Deeply hurt. She can’t believe it.

                         ANNA
              Idiot.                                                *

Anna turns her back on him and leaves. She goes swimming with the
others. Nemo looks at his feet. He hates himself. We approach
Nemo, closer and closer.

We draw close to his eye... We see a reflection in his eye... The
reflection of a windowpane.

91A - A man’s silhouette stands out in the frame...


92 - EXT./INT. TRAIN — DAY

...In the window of a train is adult Nemo’s silhouette. He is in
the train. A jolt of the train wakes the dozing Nemo.               *




                                - 37 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




93 - INT. STATION — DAY

Nemo walks through the station. The station clock reads 9:12. Nemo
passes a girl with a shaved head who is panhandling. He gives her
his change. A woman he thinks he recognizes is coming toward him.
The woman is holding two children by the hand. When they are side
by side, they look at each other. It is ADULT ANNA.

                           ANNA
              Oh my god!                                             *

                           NEMO
              Anna!

                        ANNA
              How are you doing?

                        NEMO
              I’m fine... and you? Are those your
              children?

                           ANNA
              Yes.

Silence. They don’t know what more to say.

                        ANNA (CONT.)
              Okay, well, see you around.

                        NEMO
              Yeah... see you around.

They continue their separate ways. Nemo looks deeply moved by the
encounter.

                        CHILD NEMO’S VOICE (OFF)
              What on earth made me say, “I don’t
              go swimming with jerks?”                               *

He takes a picture from his wallet. The picture of the beach he
took as a child. We move closer to the picture. We pass into it...


94 - EXT. BEACH — DAY

Fourteen-year-old Nemo is taking the picture of the beach. The
same scene again. He is sitting apart from the group in his
ridiculous swimsuit. Anna comes to sit next to him.

                        ANNA
              You gonna swim?

Nemo doesn’t answer. She takes his hand and pulls him.




                                  - 38 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ANNA (CONT.)
              Come on. The water’s nice.

                         NEMO
              No, I...

He clams up and stares straight ahead.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              I don’t know how to swim.

                         ANNA
              Sorry?                                                  *

                        NEMO
              I don’t know how to swim. That’s
              it. Please don’t tell anyone.                           *

Anna sits down next to him, understanding. They look at each
other, smile, laugh. One of Anna’s girlfriends runs up to them,
wanting Anna to come with her.

                        ANNA’S FRIEND
              Come on, aren’t you gonna swim?

                        ANNA
              No, I’ve got my period. I’ll stay
              here. Nemo’ll keep me company.

Her friend walks away. Anna and Nemo look at each other and share
a quiet laugh. Anna moves closer to Nemo. Their bare shoulders
brush against each other. Nemo gets goose bumps. He doesn’t dare
move for fear of disturbing the delicate contact of their skin.


95 - INT. ANNA AND NEMO’S ROOM — DAY

Sheets. A woman’s naked shoulder. Adult Nemo is sleeping close to
her. He caresses her. It is adult Anna.

They hug. They put their arms right next to each other.

                         NEMO
              Look...

The hair on their arms is standing up. They both have goose bumps.
They embrace.


96 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — DAY

Fourteen-year-old Nemo is in his mother’s apartment. He is doing
his homework. We hear the door open. We hear voices that then go
silent. The mother comes into the room and approaches Nemo. She
looks at him. She is uncomfortable.



                                - 39 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        MOTHER
              Honey... I... I want to introduce
              you to someone.

Nemo turns toward a man who is looking at him from the door. It’s
Harry, the man Nemo saw with his mother in the woods.

                        MOTHER (CONT.)
              You’ve already met Harry. This is
              his daughter, Anna.

Anna comes into the room after Harry. Nemo and Anna look at each
other, both equally surprised. They act as if it’s nothing.

                        MOTHER (CONT.)
              Anna, this is Nemo. So, why don’t
              you shake hands...

They shake hands somewhat awkwardly.


97 - INT. MOTHER’S LIVING ROOM — EVENING

All four of them are at the dinner table. Nemo’s mother and Anna’s
father are chatting, somewhat nervously. They watch discreetly as
Anna and Nemo sit facing each other without looking at each other,
eating in silence. Underneath the table, Anna’s foot is caressing
Nemo’s leg. Nemo blushes and looks even more intently at his
plate. They secretly give each other the faintest of smiles.

Later. Anna and her father are leaving. Anna shakes Nemo’s hand.
Nemo’s mother kisses Anna’s father on the lips and whispers
something in his ear. They have a whispered conversation. We can
barely make out:

                         MOTHER
              We mustn’t go too fast... We can’t
              rush them.


98 - EXT. PUBLIC PARK — DAY

A sunny Sunday. Nemo and his mother, Anna and her father are
picnicking on an island facing the town, in the sun. The father
and mother walk off for a moment, hand in hand. They kiss in the
distance, discreetly. Anna and Nemo are alone together.

                        ANNA
              I can’t believe them. Sometimes I
              wonder how old they are.

                        NEMO
              ...




                               - 40 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ANNA
              Have they already slept together?

                        NEMO
              I don’t know.

                        ANNA
              I hope they use johnny’s. I don’t                       *
              want to end up with a little
              brother.

                        NEMO
              I’d rather die.

                        ANNA
              Is your mum on the pill?

                        NEMO
              I have no idea.

                        ANNA
              You’d better slip it in her coffee
              in the morning. It looks like her
              hormones have gone to her head.                         *

A pause.

                        NEMO
              Sometimes I can see the future.

                        ANNA
              It doesn’t seem like it would be
              much fun to know what’s going to
              happen. Like reading your life from                     *
              a book... How do you do it?                             *

Nemo closes his eyes.


99 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM — NIGHT

Old Nemo is in his bed. The journalist is sitting next to him. The
recorder is still running.

                        OLD NEMO
              Oh, you’re still here... I’d
              forgotten you. What time is it?

                        JOURNALIST
              Fourteen-seventeen.    I    don’t
              understand. Did you stay with your
              father or go with your mother?




                               - 41 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        OLD NEMO
              Did I fall asleep? Some nights I
              don’t sleep. So I think, I think...
              I think about how it was. That’s
              all I have left... What do you see
              when you look at me? A grumpy old
              man who drools when he eats, who
              never answers questions. Who mixes
              everything up. Who’s kept busy by
              getting his meals. But that’s not
              me. Me, I wear short pants. I’m
              nine years old. I can run faster                       *
              than the train. I don’t feel my
              aching back anymore. I’m fifteen .                     *
              I’m in love. I’m in love...                            *


100 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — NIGHT

Everyone is back at the mother’s apartment. It is evening.

                        MOTHER
              So, I think it’ll be easier if
              everyone sleeps here. Nemo, will                       *
              you lend your room to Anna, and you                    *
              can sleep in the study?

Everyone looks at everyone else as though there was nothing out of
the ordinary.

                        NEMO
              Sure.


101 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — NIGHT

All the lights are off in the corridor. We see a light coming from   *
under the door of the mother’s room. We hear sounds of embracing,
a squeaking bed. Nemo slips discretely from the study. Without a     *
sound, he opens the door to the room where Anna is sleeping.         *

Complete darkness. He feels his way, bumps into something, holds
his breath. He reaches the bed. He whispers.

                        NEMO
              Anna?

Anna turns over and lifts the covers, inviting him to slip into
the bed. He slips in and lies down next to Anna, very close. They
look into each other’s eyes. They touch each other’s face. Anna
gently runs her fingertips over Nemo’s skin. Nemo shivers. We see
the hairs on his arm straighten.                                  *




                               - 42 -
                                                 "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



At the end of the hall, the sounds of Nemo’s mother and Anna’s
father intercourse become louder and louder. We hear the mother        *
reach a theatrical-sounding orgasm.

Nemo’s lips brush Anna’s cheek. We hear only their controlled
breathing. They finally kiss. They disappear under the covers.


102 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT (1988) — DAY

It is morning. Under the covers, Nemo and Anna are asleep in each
other’s arms. Time has gone by, their hair has changed. A voice
rings out in the hall.

                        NEMO’S MOTHER (OFF)
              Nemo? ... Nemo?

Nemo wakes with a start. As does Anna. Nemo yanks his pajamas on. *
He gets all tangled up in them, falls to the ground, hurries. He’s
in a panic. Nemo opens the door to the hall. His mother’s back is
to him, and he takes advantage to silently cross the hall, pulling
up his pants, and slips into the small study. He jumps into bed as
fast as he can and pretends to be asleep. We hear voices in the
hall.

                        ANNA’S FATHER (OFF)
              Isn’t he sleeping in the study?                          *

                       NEMO’S MOTHER (OFF)
              No, I just looked, and he’s not
              there.

Nemo opens his eyes, panicking. He jumps out of bed.

                        NEMO’S MOTHER
              Anna, have you seen your brother?

                        ANNA
              He’s not my brother.

Nemo crosses the hall again as fast as he can, without being seen.
He goes into the bathroom, flushes the toilet, slows himself down,
and comes back out looking half-asleep.

                        NEMO’S MOTHER
              There you are. Did you sleep well?

He groans, returns to the study and gets back into bed - this time *
falling asleep for real, exhausted.

The camera pulls back.

102A - The camera leaves through the window...




                            - 43 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




103 - EXT. CITY — DAY

...The camera is still moving back. We see the apartment building.
We move further back. We see the city from above. The image
freezes. It is a postcard lying on a table...


104 - INT. FATHER’S HOUSE (1988) — NIGHT

The postcard is lying on the kitchen table. We hear the door
opening.

Fourteen-year-old Nemo comes into the house and closes the door
behind him. He has different clothes and a different haircut from
the previous scene. The father’s voice emerges from the kitchen.

                        FATHER (OFF)
              Who’s there?

                         NEMO
              It’s me.

Nemo comes into the kitchen. His father is in a wheelchair. He has
aged. He looks at Nemo strangely. He doesn’t recognize him. Nemo
comes over and leans close to his father. He takes his hand. The
father is still staring at him.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              It’s me, Dad. Nemo. Your son.

                       FATHER
              Nemo! Of course, son. Where were
              you?

                        NEMO
              At the    hardware store, Dad. I                       *
              always work at the hardware store                      *
              after school.

Nemo grabs a pan and starts cooking.

                        FATHER
              You know, a boy your age should get
              out more. You can leave me alone                       *
              you know. I can manage.                                *

                        NEMO
              It’s no problem, Dad. I like being
              at home.

A bit later. They are eating, sitting across the table from each
other. The father can only manage to use one clumsy hand. Nemo
cuts his meat for him.




                                - 44 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        FATHER
              A card from your mother came in the
              mail. You haven’t looked at it.

                        NEMO
              I know. I’ll read it later.

                        FATHER
              Won’t you go see her someday?                          *

                        NEMO
              I haven’t seen her in seven years.                     *
              If she’d ever wanted to see me,
              she’d know where to find me. No,
              I’ve got everything I need, Dad.
              Everything’s fine.

104A - A bit later, in the bathroom. Nemo is carrying his father.
He undresses him. He gets undressed himself and starts running the
shower. He carries his father in his arms and places him under the
shower, staying with him. The father clings to his son as best he
can and lets himself be washed like a baby. Nemo lathers him up.

Nemo dries his father with a towel. He is calm and attentive, his
gestures assured.

104B - A bit later still, in the father’s bedroom. Nemo dresses
his father in his pajamas and puts him to bed. He kisses his         *
forehead and turns out the light.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              Night, Dad.                                            *

                        FATHER
              Goodnight, son.

Nemo leaves the room. The father calls him back:

                          FATHER (CONT.)
              Nemo!

                          NEMO
              Yes, Dad?

                        FATHER
              You’re a good son, Nemo.                               *

Nemo watches as his father falls asleep. He tiptoes out of the
room.


105 - EXT. STREET — NIGHT

Nemo climbs astride an old motorcycle and kick-starts it. He pulls
out slowly. He rides down the road.



                                 - 45 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



105A - He rides. He rides faster and faster. He rides at
breakneck speed, howling. He rides down a deserted road. He feels
the wind on his skin. He rides. He howls. He is mad with rage.

105B - Finally, he arrives in front of his house. He parks his
motorcycle silently. He is calm.


106 - INT. FATHER’S HOUSE — NIGHT

He enters the house without a sound.                                   *

106A - He opens the door to his father’s room, finding him asleep.
He goes to tuck him in.

106B - Then Nemo enters his own room. He    sits down in front of an
old typewriter and starts typing. Sheets    of paper are piled next
to the machine. The metal rods strike the   surface of the paper and
words appear: “After three months and six   days...”

                        TEENAGE NEMO (OFF)
              After three months and six days of
              travel, the shuttle was heading
              directly toward the Cancer nebula,
              in line with Uranus and its five
              moons. It was finally approaching
              Mars and the colonies. On board,
              the computer was monitoring the
              passengers’        artificial
              hibernation...


107 - EXT. COSMOS — NIGHT

In the distance, the Cancer nebula. A spaceship passes quite near
us – propelled by enormous solar sails – and disappears in the
immensity of the cosmos, heading toward a small red planet.


108 - INT. SPACESHIP — NIGHT

Adult Nemo is in a state of hibernation in a container behind a
pane of glass. He is in his fifties, white silvery hair. He has a
burn scar on his face. Computers monitor his condition. A beam of
blue light scans him constantly. Articulated arms examine him. On
the screens we can see virtual representations of his vital
organs. His heartbeat is slowed. In the corridor of the spaceship,
three other chambers contain the rest of the crew...

We approach Nemo’s frozen face. His eyeballs quiver slightly. His
pulse accelerates.

                        ADULT NEMO (OFF)
              Anna... Anna...




                               - 46 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




109 - INT. DOCTOR’S OFFICE — DAY

During the hypnosis session, the doctor’s pendulum swings evenly
in front of us...

                        OLD NEMO (OFF)
              Anna... Anna...


110 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — MORNING

Nemo sees a tennis match on television through the open door of
his parents’ room. It is the throaty breathing of the players that
we hear.


110A - EXT/INT. TERRACE / MOTHERS APARTMENT - MORNING

Summer sunshine. Nemo and Anna are lying on the terrace, in
swimsuits and sunglasses. They are dozing, exhausted, pretending
to read. They pass a joint back and forth. Anna’s foot slips
discreetly along Nemo’s thigh.

Anna’s father and Nemo’s mother are preparing to go out. Anna
hides the joint and waves the smoke away. They giggle.

                        NEMO’S MOTHER
              We’ve got errands to run, we’ll be
              back in an hour.

                        ANNA’S FATHER
              Put on a shirt, Anna...     You’re                     *
              going to get sunburned.

The father looks at them insistently, as if he has some doubts. As
soon as the door is closed, they burst out laughing. They throw
themselves at each other, kissing, rolling on the breakfast table,
knocking everything to the floor, rolling on the ground,
undressing. Anna grasps him between her legs, they roll around on
the couch, they roll around on the rug, laughing.

They catch their breath. Nemo takes an ice cube from an overturned
glass and slides it gently over Anna’s skin. He watches her skin
contract, goose bumps appear. He slides the ice from her arm to
her belly, then over the tips of her breasts, which stand up.

                        ANNA
              You’re mine.                                           *

                        NEMO
              And you’re mine.                                       *

Pause. Nemo looks sad.




                               - 47 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NEMO (CONT.)
              I’m wondering what would have
              happened if we hadn’t met... Maybe
              I’d be with my father. But the most
              important thing would be missing.

                         ANNA
              What?

                         NEMO
              You.

Anna holds onto him tightly.

                        ANNA
              Do you see our future?

                        NEMO
              I’ve stopped seeing the future. It
              scares me when I don’t see you. I
              don’t want a future if you’re not                      *
              in it.                                                 *

                         ANNA
              Forever.

                        NEMO
              Forever. Whatever happens. There is                    *
              no life without you.                                   *

                        ANNA
              No life without you.                                   *


111 - INT. FATHER’S HOUSE — DAWN

Teenage Nemo wakes up, gets out of bed.

111A - Nemo and his father are in the bathroom. Nemo applies *
shaving cream to his father’s face and shaves him carefully. He is
calm and attentive, his gestures precise. The blade slides over
his father’s neck. He finishes and puts aftershave on him.

                        FATHER
              You look like my son.

                        NEMO
              I am your son, Dad.

                        FATHER
              My son is taller than you.

111B - Nemo positions his father in front of the window. The
father gazes at the clouds moving slowly through the window frame.   *




                                - 48 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




112 - INT. FATHER’S HOUSE — NIGHT

Nemo is in his room, sitting at his typewriter. His fingers dance
quickly over the keys. The pages fill up.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              The spaceship was now only sixty-
              seven thousand kilometers from
              Mars, and we could already see the
              two moons, Phobos and Deimos. They
              were preparing to spend 779 days
              there, until Mars came close to the
              Earth again.


113 - INT. SPACESHIP — NIGHT

The motionless face of Adult Nemo, in his container. The shuttle’s
sails fold in. Mars appears, immense and red. It is magnificent.
Its surface is covered with valleys, and we can discern the
presence of four cities.

                        TEENAGE NEMO (OFF)
              The onboard computer displayed:                         *

On the space shuttle, the onboard computer displays the message:
“END OF HIBERNATION.”


114 - INT. FATHER’S HOUSE — NIGHT

We see the typewriter keys writing on the white paper:                *

E-N-D O-F H-I-B-E-R-N-A-T-I-O-N.

Nemo rereads the words and stops. He takes the sheet of paper from
the typewriter and lays it on the pile of pages that make up his
novel.


115 - EXT. VILLAGE STREETS — NIGHT

It is dark. Nemo is walking toward the village. He stops in front
of the village hall. There is music. Nemo hesitates. He takes a
coin from his pocket, flips it, but can’t catch the coin, which
falls into the gutter. Nemo goes inside.


116 - INT. VILLAGE HALL — NIGHT

The village hall is crowded, mostly with young people. He hears
someone burst out with laughter He sees in the distance a girl his *
age, ELISE, who is laughing. She turns toward him. She gives him a
little wave. A handsome young man, STEFANO, is next to her.



                               - 49 -
                                                      "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11


Elise holds onto his arm, and Stefano holds his girlfriend’s hand
and kisses her. Elise whispers something in his ear.

                        STEFANO
              Are you crazy, or what?

Elise turns white. She passes from giggles to sobs. She crouches
on the ground. Nemo freezes, watching.

                        STEFANO (CONT.)
              Come on, it’s no big deal, I didn’t
              say anything mean.

Someone tries to help Elise up, but she stomps her feet on the
ground, then tries to control herself, but breaks down crying
again. People are uncomfortable. Elise pushes her way through the
crowd. She is heading right toward Nemo, and stops in front of
him.

                        ELISE
              Shall we go, Nemo?

                           NEMO
              Excuse me?

                        ELISE
              Shall we go? This is such a bore.

She takes his arm and drags him toward the exit.


117 - EXT. STREET — NIGHT

Ne m o and Elise    come    out     of     the   village   hall.   Ne m o is
uncomfortable.

                        NEMO
              How do you know my name?

Elise’s eyes are still full of tears. She hiccups. He gives her a
handkerchief. She refuses it.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              You’ll drown.

She smiles. She looks at Nemo. She thinks he’s nice. She takes the
handkerchief, blows her nose. She smiles at him.

                        ELISE
              We go to the same school, but
              you’ve never noticed me. You never
              look at anyone. Do you have a                                    *
              girlfriend?

                           NEMO
              ...



                                  - 50 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ELISE
              Are you queer? Why don’t you have a                     *
              girlfriend?

                        NEMO
              I don’t know. I don’t want one.

                        ELISE
              Tell me about yourself. You used to
              wet your pants. Everyone thinks
              you’re a weirdo. You’re always all                      *
              alone. Talk. Say something.

                        NEMO
              ...

                        ELISE
              Do you like me? Do you think I’m
              pretty? You don’t like my accent,                       *
              do you? What are you thinking?                          *

                        NEMO
              I’ve got a bit of a headache.                           *

                        ELISE
              Say something, come on!

                        NEMO
              Gravity on Mars is .38. Three times
              less than on Earth. The ground is
              covered with iron oxide dust.

Elise bursts out laughing. She looks at him, melting.

                        ELISE
              You’re incredible. Raise you hand
              and say “I swear.”

                        NEMO
              Why?

                        ELISE
              Promise that if I die, you’ll go
              spread my ashes on Mars.

                        NEMO
              It is estimated that travel to Mars
              would take six to eight months. The
              first passengers will be white
              mice.

                        ELISE
              Say “I swear.”




                               - 51 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NEMO
                 (not daring to contradict her)
              I swear.

                        ELISE
              We were neighbors      when we were
              little.   Elise...      Don’t  you
              remember?

117A - Flash: a little girl in a yellow dress watches child Nemo
go by. On one side of her a little girl in a pink dress, on the
other side one in a blue dress.

                        NEMO
              Elise! ... Yes. I had the feeling
              I’d seen you somewhere...

                        ELISE
              That’s called déjà vu. They say                         *
              that it’s the signal from the eyes                      *
              going through your memory before...                     *

                        NEMO
              No, that’s not it...

117B - Flash: Nemo and Elise are sleeping in each other’s arms, as
adults, surrounded by their three children.

                        TEENAGE ELISE
              In another life then?       Anyway,   I
              remembered you!

She takes his hand and moves close to him. He squeezes her hand.
They look into each other’s eyes. He blushes, stirred up. She
brings her face close to him. He approaches too. She steps back.

                        ELISE (CONT.)
              You shouldn’t. You don’t know me...
              I’m not a good person.

                        NEMO
              Why do you say that?

Elise starts crying. He caresses her face. She moves close to him.
She kisses him. She suddenly turns around and runs away.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              Elise! Wait!

                        ELISE
              I’ll call you!

                        NEMO
              You don’t have my number!




                            - 52 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




118 - INT. FATHER’S HOUSE — NIGHT

118A - Nemo is looking at the phone. It doesn’t ring.

Sitting at the table in his room, Nemo writes a letter. He writes,
“Dear Elise,” then stops. He wads up the page, takes a new one. He
is in front of a blank page. He doesn’t know what to write. He
shakes. Beads of sweat stand out on his forehead. Slowly, he
begins writing. His pen glides over the page making a sharp little
noise.

                        ADULT NEMO (OFF)
              What happens when we fall in love?
              As a result of certain stimuli, the
              hypothalamus releases a powerful
              discharge of endorphins...


119 - INT. TV STUDIO — DAY

Adult Nemo is looking into the camera. It is a popular science
program.

119A - A cross-section of a brain is in superimposition.

                         NEMO (CONT.)
              But why exactly that woman or that
              man? Is     there a     release   of
              odourless        pheromones    that                    *
              correspond   to   a   complementary
              genetic signal? Or is it physical                      *
              features that we re co g ni z e? A                     *
              mother’s eyes? A sister’s dimple?                      *
              An smell that stimulates a happy                       *
              memory?                                                *

119B - We see brief flashes of Elise looking at Nemo. We see her
eyes, very close up...

119C - We see the eyes of Nemo’s mother.

We see Elise’s nose. The mouth, the chin. We see the hands. Her
haircut is similar to his mother’s. We see Nemo looking at her,
breathing. We go into a nostril.

119D - We see glands contracting, we see the heart beating faster,
the blood flow increasing...

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              Is love part of a plan? A vast war
              plan   between   two   modes  of
              reproduction? Bacteria and viruses
              are asexual organisms.




                             - 53 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



119E - We see bacteria multiplying through cell division. We see
their genomes dividing into two perfectly identical codes.

                           NEMO (CONT.)
                With each cell division, each
                multiplication, they mutate and
                perfect   themselves,   much more
                quickly than we do. Against this,
                we respond with a fearsome weapon:
                sex. Two individuals, by mixing
                their genes, shuffle the cards and
                create an individual who resists
                viruses better the more dissimilar
                he or she is.

119F - We see DNA mixing to produce a different combination.

                          NEMO (CONT.)
                Are we unknowing participants in a
                war that is beyond us, a war
                between two modes of reproduction?

Credits    music. The images stop rolling behind Nemo. The tape
rewinds.    The background goes out, leaving a blue screen. Nemo
consults   his papers and looks at his watch. The lights go on. We
are in a   TV studio.

                          LOUDSPEAKER VOICE
                Okay, that’s good for today.

                          NEMO
                   (to Peter, a passing assistant)
                Was I okay?                                           *

                          PETER
                I thought it was good.

Nemo takes out his cell phone and dials a number.

                          NEMO
                Honey? I’m running a little late.                     *


120 - EXT. ANNA AND NEMO’S HOUSE — DAY

Anna answers her cell phone in front of a pretty white house. The
children play around her as she escorts them inside.

                          ANNA
                No problem. We’ll wait.

                          NEMO (OFF)
                Anna! I love you.




                              - 54 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ANNA
              I love you more.

                         NEMO (OFF)
              Me more.

                         ANNA
              Me more.

                         NEMO (OFF)
              Okay.

                         ANNA
              Cheater.


121 - EXT. TV STUDIO — DAY

Nemo hangs up. He is walking briskly out of the studio. He takes
his keys from his pocket. He climbs into his car and drives away.
He passes a cyclist, who is forced to brake. The cyclist stops and
lets him past.


122 - EXT. WOODS — DAY

Nemo’s car is driving fast down a road that goes through a wooded
area. In the distance, birds are bustling in the branches,
chirping away. They land on the road surface, pecking at seeds.
Nemo’s car suddenly appears. One of the birds hits his windshield.

122A - Nemo swerves to the side, skidding. The car zigzags. Nemo
loses control of the vehicle, and it goes off the road, plunging
into a river...


123 - EXT. UNDER WATER — DAY

The car sinks under the water... Water pours in through the half-
open window. There is no more air. Nemo struggles. Bubbles come
out of his mouth. He strikes at the door in vain. His gestures
become slower.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              Shit... I’ve got to go back . I have                   *
              to start again...                                      *

In the rearview mirror we see:


124 - EXT. COUNTRY RAILROAD STATION — DAY

Child Nemo is running after the train that is taking his mother
away. A baggage handler passes in front of Nemo with his cart.




                                - 55 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11


Nemo stops and watches the train move away. The train moves
away...


125 - EXT. ELISE’S STREET — DAY

...reflected in the motorcycle rearview mirror. Teenage Nemo is
sitting astride his stationary motorcycle. He is holding his
letter in his hand. He is watching a house, and sees Elise come
outside. He hides. He is going to approach her. He doesn’t dare.
He clutches his letter so hard he crushes it. He sees Elise emerge
from her house, laughing with Stefano. Nemo blanches. Their eyes
meet. Nemo looks down and rides away.

                        STEFANO
              Do you know him?

                        ELISE
              That’s Nemo. He’s weird. He does
              everything he can to avoid me.


126 - EXT. ROAD — NIGHT

Nemo is racing his motorcycle. He is going at breakneck speed. The
wind is whipping at his face, tears run down his cheeks. He howls,
but his voice is covered by the motorcycle’s roar. It’s the same
road as usual, we recognize the bends. The road rushes by. The
wind fills Nemo’s eyes with tears. The turns are tight.

126A - Just ahead, a dead leaf lies on the roadway. The motorcycle
approaches. All of a sudden, he skids. The motorcycle swerves.
Nemo crashes to the ground. He is lying beside the road,
motionless. Nothing moves. Oil from the motorcycle empties drop by
drop onto the asphalt.

126B - Later. An ambulance is on the scene. There is a lot of
commotion. Flashes of light. Feet and hands going by. People are
trying to keep Nemo awake. He is carried away on a stretcher.
Nurses talk to him, but he hears nothing. They put an oxygen mask
over his face.


127 - INT. HOSPITAL (1988) — DAY

A body is lying on a hospital bed. It is hooked up to all kinds of
tubes, breathing machines. It doesn’t move. It is fourteen-year-
old Nemo. His face is half-covered by masks and tubes. We can make
out a presence around him. We sense a nurse placing a thermometer
under his arm.

                        NURSE 1 (OFF)
              Do you think he can hear us? Have
              you seen any reactions?                                *




                            - 56 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NURSE 2 (OFF)
              I don’t know. But I’ve got a funny                     *
              feeling that he can...                                 *

Nemo is confined to the bed and does not move. Nurse 1 leans over
him.

                        NURSE 1
              Sir? If you can hear me, move your                     *
              finger.

Nemo’s hand. Nothing moves.

                        NEMO’S VOICE (OFF)
              Who’s there? ... What am I doing
              here?

                        NURSE 1
              Can you move your eyes?

Nemo’s eyes remain hopelessly closed.

                        NEMO’S VOICE (OFF)
                 (getting louder and louder)
              I’ve got to get out of here... Go
              back before the accident... I’VE
              GOT TO WAKE UP!

127A - We move away from him at top speed, passing through the
walls, the hallways...

127B - We pass through the windshield of the ambulance as is it
racing through the streets.

127C - Flash: we see the motorcycle accident in reverse.


128 - EXT. ELISE’S STREET — DAY

Back in time... Nemo is astride his stationary motorcycle. He is
holding his letter. Stefano walks away down the sidewalk, Nemo
hasn’t seen him. He is watching Elise as she comes out of her
house. He approaches her and stops in front of her. He looks her
straight in the eye. She is both surprised and happy. He gives her
the envelope.

                        NEMO
              I believe in one thing. I believe
              we should always say “I love you”
              to the people we love.

They look at each other intensely.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              I love you.



                              - 57 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



She is deeply moved. He kisses her on the lips. She hugs him
tightly. They kiss for a long time, without coming up for air.
Suddenly, she draws back.

                        ELISE
              I’m not a good person, Nemo. We...
              We shouldn’t. I... I love Stefano.

                        NEMO
              What?

                        ELISE
              Stefano. You saw him, at the party
              with me. I... He doesn’t love me.
              He’s with...that idiot...

                        NEMO
              And so?

                         ELISE
              I love him anyway. I can’t help
              myself. I’m in love with him. I...
              I’m sorry.

Nemo is dumbfounded. He stares at her without moving. A butterfly
passes above them, pirouetting in the sky.


129 - INT. FATHER’S HOUSE — EVENING

Nemo is crushed. He is playing chess with himself. His father
looks at him tenderly.

                        NEMO
              Dad, I’m getting married.

                        FATHER
              Oh? And who’s the lucky lady?                         *

                        NEMO
              It’s not that. I’m going to marry
              the first girl who dances with me
              tonight.


130 - INT. VILLAGE HALL — NIGHT

A dance in the village hall. Everyone is dressed differently from
the first time. Nemo comes in. He sees Elise on the other side of
the room. Their eyes meet. He wants to go over to her, but she
turns away. She asks Stefano to dance. It’s a slow dance, the
lights are dim. Nemo watches her. She presses close to Stefano,
puts her arms around his neck. She glances at Nemo. Nemo blushes,
furious, and turns away. He asks the first girl he sees to dance.
It is TEENAGE JEAN. She smiles at him, and seems very nice.



                               - 58 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        JEAN
              Thanks, Nemo.

They go onto the dance floor and dance pressed closely together.
Nemo looks at Elise dancing with Stefano. He is furious. Jean
looks at Nemo. Elise glances at them. Nemo looks at Jean. He
slowly moves his face toward hers. She pulls back a bit,
hesitates. Nemo brings his lips to hers, and they kiss. Jean
hesitates for a moment, then lets herself go, puts her arms around
him. Elise forces herself to smile at Stefano. She pretends to be
happy. Jean presses herself to Nemo. She is truly happy. She is in
love. Nemo is furious. He lets himself be embraced by Jean, who is
smiling, her eyes closed, tears in her eyes. She whispers:

                        JEAN (CONT.)
              Nemo... Nemo...

Nemo closes his eyes. The image fades to black.


131 - EXT. COUNTRY ROAD — NIGHT

Nemo, his face hard, is riding at top speed on his motorcycle.
Jean is astride behind him, her arms around him, holding on.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              On that day, I will make a lot of                      *
              foolish    decisions. ONE : I will                     *
              never leave anything to chance
              again...

Teenage Nemo looks right at the camera and says:

                        TEENAGE NEMO
              ONE: I will never leave anything to
              chance again. TWO: I will marry the
              girl on my motorcycle. THREE: I’ll                     *
              be rich. FOUR: We’ll have a house.                     *
              A big house. Painted yellow. With a                    *
              yard. And two children, Paul and
              Michael.   FIVE:   I’ll   have   a
              convertible. Red . And a swimming                      *
              pool. I’ll learn to swim. SIX: I
              won’t stop until I’ve succeeded.

131A - Nemo’s speech is peppered with FLASHES: Adult Jean. A white
house, that grows bigger when the voice over says “big house” and
turns yellow when the voice says “ Yellow .” A yard spreads around   *
it, and an automatic sprinkler system starts up. A bl ue             *
convertible appears in front of the garage and turns red when the    *
voice says “Red.” Two children pose in front of the house holding    *
hands. Their t-shirts read “Paul” and “Michael”.




                               - 59 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




132 - EXT. NEMO AND JEAN’S YARD — DAWN

The big pool in Nemo and Jean’s yard, at dawn. Adult Nemo, in his
bathrobe, is on the diving board, a bottle of scotch in his hand.
He falls forward and spins in the air for a few seconds before
plunging under the water.


133 - EXT. NEMO AND JEAN’S YARD — DAY

The vast estate. A gardener is mowing the lawn. Nemo floats in the
pool, almost motionless. Jean screams and dives in fully dressed
to save him.

Black.

                        PAUL (OFF)
              Daddy? ... Daddy?

                        JEAN (OFF)
              Paul, don’t wake your father!

133A - Nemo’s eyes pop open. He was sleeping on a chaise lounge,
holding a glass of juice. He is beside a tarp-covered pool. Nemo
looks at Jean.

                        NEMO
              Elise?

The woman looks surprised. Nemo puts down his glass.

                        JEAN
              It’s me, Jean... Who’s Elise?                          *

                        NEMO
              Jean? ... Oh, right...

                        JEAN
              Paul, you can keep playing.

Paul walks away. Nemo’s expression is blank. His children are
laughing as they play with a dog. Nemo moves to pick up his glass,
but it’s not there anymore.

                        NEMO
              Didn’t I have a glass?

                        JEAN
              No... You’re still tired, Nemo. You
              need to rest.

     She looks at him, a silent moment. Nemo looks at his shoe,
     intrigued. The lace is broken. He pulls it off.




                               - 60 -
                                                   "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        JEAN (CONT.)
              Nemo... Do I matter to you?

Nemo looks at her.

                        JEAN (CONT.)
              I’d just like to ask you on e                              *
              question. Did you do it on purpose?                        *

Nemo looks at her, uncomprehending. Jean takes a paper from her
pocket and unfolds it. She hands it to Nemo.                             *

                        JEAN (CONT.)                                     *
              I found it on the bedside table.                           *

                        NEMO
              Did I write that?... It is my                              *
              writing. I don’t remember...

Jean takes the paper back.                                               *

                            JEAN                                         *
                  (reading)                                              *
              “There comes a time in life when
              everything seems narrow. Choices
              have been made. I can only continue
              on. I know myself inside out, I can                        *
              predict       my   every       reaction.
              Everything is predictable. My life
              has been cast in cement, with
              a i r b a g s and s e a t b e l t s . I’ve
              controlled everything. I’ve done
              everything to reach this point, and
              now that I’m here, I’m fuck ing                            *
              bored. The hardest thing is knowing
              whether I’m still alive.”


134 - INT. OFFICE — NIGHT

Nemo is in his office, plunged in     darkness. There is a picture of
Jean on his desk. He looks at the     broken shoelace in his hand. He
looks at a candle flame. He holds     his hand over the flame to see
if it burns. He holds it there as     long as he can. His hand starts
to smoke.


135 - INT. ANNA’S ROOM IN THE MOTHER’S HOUSE — DAY

Teenage Nemo wakes with a start. He looks at his hand, which is
unscathed. Blonde hair is spread out next to him. He studies it.
It is Anna. They are in Anna’s room. She also wakes up.

                          NEMO
              Jean?



                                 - 61 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ANNA
              What did you say?

                        NEMO
              Anna, is that you? I had a dream...
              a weird dream.

They hear a noise. Nemo jumps out of bed. He looks at the time,
pulls on a t-shirt as fast as he can.

                        ANNA
              Fast!

Nemo opens the door a crack. No one. Nemo tiptoes down the hall.
We no longer hear sounds of love from the parents’ room, but
sounds of fighting.


136 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — DAY

Breakfast. No one is talking. Anna’s father and Nemo’s mother are
not speaking. They are angry with each other. Anna and Nemo glance
at them discreetly.

                        ANNA
              Everything okay?

                        ANNA’S FATHER
              Everything’s great. Mind your own
              business.

Everyone stares at their food in silence.

                        NEMO’S MOTHER
              Well. It is important for you to                       *
              understand... In life, things don’t                    *
              always work out the way we plan                        *
              them. Harry and I thought... Life                      *
              isn’t always what we think it will
              be.

                        NEMO
              What are you talking about? I don’t
              get it.

                        MOTHER
              Anna already knows.

Nemo turns toward Anna, who looks away.

                        MOTHER (CONT.)
              Harry and I are going to separate.

Nemo looks at his mother as if he can’t believe it.




                               - 62 -
                                               "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NEMO
              What? But why? You have no right,
              I... What’s wrong with y...                            *

                        ANNA’S FATHER
              You’ve played your part in it. I
              don’t know what’s going on between
              you two, and I don’t want to know.
              It’s sick. You’re brother and
              sister. It is better that...                           *

                        ANNA
              We are NOT brother and sister!

Anna runs to her room and slams the door. Nemo follows her.


137 - INT. ANNA’S ROOM — DAY

Nemo bursts into Anna’s room, but she avoids his eyes. He locks
the door behind him.

                        NEMO
              You knew? ... And you didn’t tell
              me?

He turns away, furious. Anna takes him in her arms, holds him
tight, sobs. He turns toward her, also crying. Her father knocks
furiously at the door.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              Where? Where are you going?

                        ANNA
              To New York. In ten days. My father
              found a job there.

Both of them are crushed. They don’t move. They hold each other
tightly.

                        ANNA (CONT.)
              We’ll meet every Sunday, near the
              lighthouse. Okay? Until we see each
              other again. For life. Okay? It’s
              not over. We still have time. We
              have to take advantage of every
              minute.

They kiss.

137A - A little later. They are lying on the floor, motionless,
holding hands. The sunlight moves through the room. They do not
move. It is endless.




                               - 63 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NEMO
              Ten days, that makes... 14,400
              minutes. I wish everything would
              stop right now, and things to stay                       *
              this way forever.

                        ANNA
              They say that if you slow your                           *
              breathing, time slows down. The                          *
              Hindus say so.

They stare into each other’s eyes, without moving, holding hands.
They hold their breath.

A little later, at night. They make love, almost without moving,
in slow motion.

A little later. Through the window, they watch the sun rise. The
branches of the trees dance in slow motion... They turn toward
each other in slow motion. Their fingers touch. We hear a faucet
dripping.                                                              *

137B - A drop falls from the bathroom faucet, its fall slowing...
and it stops in mid air, as if time had stopped.


138 - EXT. SPACE AND MISC. — DAY

The planets slow their rotation...

                        ADULT NEMO (OFF)
              Will time stop moving when the
              expansion of the universe reaches
              its end?

We pull back, away from the solar system. We see galaxies,      move
back even more, see a mass of galaxies, pull back more, see a   kind
of brilliance, a drop. We pull even further back and we see     that
it is lachrymal fluid from an eyelid. We see an eye. We         pull
further back.

138A - It is Anna’s eye...

                        ADULT NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              Is the universe a miniscule part of
              a much greater ensemble? Is the
              entire universe contained in a
              microscopic molecule, in a tear
              perched on an eyelid?


139 - INT. NEMO’S ROOM — DAY

A shining tear falls from Anna’s eyelid and runs down her cheek.
The shadows of two teenage hands on the wall...



                               - 64 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11


They touch, caress each other... Dust dances in the air, around
their fingers... Through the window, falling autumn leaves hang in
the air...

Very close up, Anna’s mouth, her lips.


140 - INT. NEMO’S ROOM — NIGHT

Nemo and Anna are lying side by side, their eyes open... Anna
touches her nose to Nemo’s skin...

                        ANNA
                 (whispering)
              I have to remember the smell of                         *
              every part of your body. I’ll never
              forget.

She runs her nose over Nemo’s torso.

                        ANNA (CONT.)
                 (whispering)
              You’re the first and last person
              I’ll ever love.

                        NEMO
                 (whispering)
              You are the first and the last.

They make love.

                        ANNA
              We’ll meet near the lighthouse. And
              we’ll write.

They kiss. They hold each other tight.


141 - INT. HALL IN THE MOTHER’S APARTMENT — DAY

Anna’s room is empty. The boxes are stacked in the hall. Anna’s
father walks down the hall. Movers take the things away.


142 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — EVENING

Nemo closes himself in his room. He leans against the door. He
doesn’t want to see. He is crying.

                        ANNA’S FATHER (OFF)
              Anna, it’s time to go...

Nemo doesn’t open. He listens at the door. He kneels down and
looks through the lock. Through the hole, he sees Anna’s eye. He
hears her whisper.




                            - 65 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ANNA (OFF)
              I love you.

A noise. Anna’s eye is no longer visible. The front door closes.

Nemo opens his bedroom door and runs as fast as he can to catch
them.

142A - He rushes down the stairs.


143 - EXT. STREET — NIGHT

Nemo reaches the street just as the car is pulling away. We see
the two red running lights move away and turn left. Nemo decides
to cut through on a parallel street. He runs as fast as he can. He
is out of breath, frowns, but runs even faster. He sees between
the houses that he is even with the car. The car moves slightly
ahead of him. Nemo accelerates. He knocks over garbage cans. The
fences on the street rush past.

143A - He reaches a major road. He sees the headlights turn into
the street and come toward him. Ne mo stops, and without
hesitating, steps into the road, spreading his arms in the
darkness to stop the car. The headlights approach. The light
blinds him, and he squints. The headlights come closer, without
slowing down... They are very close.

Suddenly, the two headlights separate and pass on either side of
him. Nemo can’t believe it. He turns around. It was two scooters,
which are continuing on their way.

                        SCOOTER RIDER
              Hey kid, don’t stand there!

Nemo watches them go, dazed, desperate. He howls into the night:

                           NEMO
              ANNAAAAAA!


144 - INT. SPACESHIP — NIGHT

The motionless face of adult Nemo. Frost sticks to his beard and
eyelashes. His skin is almost blue. Probes provide readings of the
weak, distant beating of his heart.

                        ADULT NEMO (OFF)
                 (whispering, very near)
              Anna! ... Anna?

144A - Flash: the three little girls in their colorful dresses:
Anna, Elise, Jean.




                                  - 66 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        TEENAGE NEMO (OFF)
              “After ninety days, the onboard
              computer is still maintaining the
              passengers’ metabolism at the level
              of a hibernating frog.”

Nemo’s face. We hear Indian music. Reflected in the glass of the
container, the image of a television.


145 - INT. HOSPITAL (1988) — DAY

Indian music coming from a television set... In the on-duty
personnel station, an Indian nurse is watching a brightly colored
film: an Indian singer is declaring his undying love to a beauty.

145A - Teenage Nemo , in a coma, lies motionless on his hospital
bed, hooked up to machines.

                        TEENAGE NEMO (OFF)
              “He had always been fascinated by
              the fact that certain frogs can
              spend the winter completely frozen,
              and that, when spring comes, comma,
              they defrost and begin living
              again. Period. The onboard computer
              displayed:”                                            *


146 - INT. SPACESHIP — NIGHT

The computer onboard the spaceship displays: “END OF HIBERNATION.”
The ice on Nemo’s face instantly melts and runs off. His color
returns. Vital functions return to normal: pulse, brain, nervous
system... The door to the hibernation chambers opens.

Nemo is in his fifties and has a burn scar on his face.

146A - We are in the center ring of the spaceship. Big bay windows
look out into space. Hibernation cases open all along the ring,
releasing passengers of every nationality. A stewardesses pass
with fruit juice. Television screens broadcast a loop of images of
earth: grass, clouds, rivers. Everything makes one think more of
tourism than of a scientific expedition: the big bay windows
looking out over the landscape, the chairs positioned to admire
the view, the music. Welcome messages are played in every
language. The passengers are handed suspicious-looking green meal
trays. The planet Mars appears in the spaceship’s line of vision,
huge and red. The tourists look on in wonder. Nemo is seated among
them. He is holding his suitcase on his knees, and on top of it,
an urn.

                        A PASSENGER
              This is a dream come true to me...                     *
              There are two tragedies in life.                       *
                        (MORE)


                               - 67 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11

                        A PASSENGER (cont'd)
              One is not to fulfill your dreams.                     *
              The other is to fulfill them.                          *
                 (He looks through the window.)                      *
              It doesn’t look like there’s much                      *
              to do. I hope I brought enough                         *
              sudoku puzzles.                                        *


147 - INT. HOSPITAL (1988) — DAY

Nemo remains entirely motionless.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              If I could at least move my
              fingers... Or my eyes... Someone
              just came in...

The floor vibrates softly under the feet of a nurse as she comes
into the room. She opens the curtains.

                        NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              Daytime... It’s daytime... The sun
              is out... It’s warmer on the left
              than on the right...

The nurse undresses him. He feels her lifting his arm.

                        NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              She’s different from the one this
              morning... Not the same perfume...
              Her hands are soft.

She washes him. He feels the washcloth on his skin. The sun is
shining on his face, and the shadow of the nurse passes back and
forth over him. Nemo feels with pleasure the contact of her hands
on his skin. The washcloth slides over his chest. A ray of sun
washes over Nemo’s face. The nurse offers an unexpected gesture of
tenderness to the teenager. She looks around to see that no one is
looking, then she kisses Nemo’s forehead.

                        NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              Elise... Is that Elise?

The Indian music gets louder.


148 - INDIAN MOVIE

The sun shines in the sky. The hero is singing to his love. They
gallop on horseback over the hills. They embrace.


149 - EXT. ELISE’S STREET — DAY

Back in time... Nemo is holding his letter. He stops before Elise.
He looks into her eyes.



                            - 68 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NEMO
              I believe one thing. I believe we
              should always say “I love you” to
              the people we love.

They look at each other intensely.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              I love you.

She is deeply moved. He kisses her on the lips. She suddenly draws
back.

                        ELISE
              I’m not a good person, Nemo. We...
              We shouldn’t. I...

                        NEMO
              You’re the one I love.

                        ELISE
              I have to tell you...

He puts a finger to her lips to stop her.

                        NEMO
              Shhh... Don’t say anything. You can
              count on me for Mars. I promise.

She smiles. He kisses her. She hesitates, then hugs him tightly.
They kiss lengthily, without coming up for air. A place goes by in
the background, pulling a streamer.


150 - EXT. CHURCH — DAY

Adult Nemo and Elise step out of a church under a rain of rice.
They are married. They get into a white car decorated with a
ribbon reading “JUST MARRIED.” They drive away.


151 - MODEL

A toy airplane, held in a child’s hand. The plane flies our a map.
On the map, the letters “OCEAN” run past. The plane flies over
North America.


152 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S ROOM (2006) — DAY

An alarm clock rings. Nemo and Elise are thirty-six. Nemo gets up.
The scene is identical to the one at the beginning of the film.
Elise is sleeping. Nemo goes into the bathroom. We stay with
Elise, whose back is to Nemo. Her eyes are open. Tears stream down
her cheeks. Nemo didn’t see her cry.



                            - 69 -
                                                     "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11


Nemo comes back into the room. He lies down next to Elise. Elise
opens her eyes. As soon as she sees him, she cries more.

                        NEMO
              What is it?

                        ELISE
              I dreamt I was somewhere else...

                        NEMO
              What do you mean?

                         ELISE
              Nothing.

                        NEMO
              Want us to go for a stroll today?                            *
              Do you want me to...

                        ELISE
              I don’t want anything. Nothing.                              *

She starts crying again, her chin trembling, shaking from head to
foot.

                        ELISE (CONT.)
              I’m so lousy... I’m worthless. I                             *
              can’t stand this life anymore.

                        NEMO
              You’re not lousy, you’re fantastic.                          *
              You’re exhausted, that’s all. It’ll
              be fine, you’ll come out of it.
              Think about it... You’ve got
              incredible kids, you’ve got...                               *

                        ELISE
              Stop trying to cheer me up,            it
              makes me feel even guiltier.

She is lying down, sobbing. Nemo looks at her, powerless.

                        ELISE (CONT.)
              What’s wrong with me? What’s wrong
              with me?

She turns toward him.

                        ELISE (CONT.)
              Do something! Do something to make
              it stop!

                        NEMO
              I think it would      be   good   if    I
              called a doctor.




                               - 70 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



She turns back toward him, her lips taut, waving a finger at him.

                        ELISE
              No doctors!

Nemo puts a hand on her shoulder. She pulls away brusquely.

                        ELISE (CONT.)
              Please... don’t touch me.                             *


153 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE - DAY

Nemo is preparing breakfast, the children are at the table. They
look a little worried. Nemo tries to be lighthearted.

                           JOYCE
              How’s mum?

                        NEMO
              She’s tired. She’s sleeping.

                        NOAH
              She’s always tired.

                        JOYCE
                 (as if distractedly)
              Is she depressed?

                        NEMO
              She has ups and downs.

                        JOYCE
              I don’t know about you, but next
              time mum has one of her crisis, I’m                   *
              going to go live somewhere else.

Nemo freezes, looks at her. He doesn’t know what to say.

                        NEMO
              So, does anyone have a joke? What’s
              small, green, and goes up and down?

                        EVE
              A pea in an elevator. It’s      not
              funny. Old people humour.

                        NEMO
              I’ll take you to school. Joyce, are
              you gonna be all right?

                        JOYCE
              Of course. It’s not because mum’s
              not okay that I’m not okay.




                               - 71 -
                                                 "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




154 - EXT. SCHOOL STREET — DAY

It is raining. Nemo drops off the children in front of the school
and drives away.


155 - INT. CAR WASH — DAY

Nemo is in his car. Soapsuds spread across his windshield, swept
by a noisy, spinning brush. It’s pretty. Jets of water push the
suds to the side windows. The car moves forward on its own, pulled
by the mechanism. Nemo watches. It relaxes him.


156 - EXT. CAR WASH — DAY

Nemo leaves the car wash. He stops at a red light. Behind the
wheel of the car next to him is Anna. Children are in the back
seat of her car. Their eyes meet for an instant. They don’t take
note, don’t know each other. Anna pulls away before Nemo.


157 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — DAY

A picture of teenage Anna stands on the desk. Teenage Nemo is
writing a letter. His mother walks past in the background. He
closes the envelope, writes Anna’s address. He closes his eyes and
concentrates.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              Anna.


158 - INT./EXT. NEW YORK - HARRY’S HOUSE — DAY

The postman slips Nemo’s letter into a mailbox. Harry comes out of
the house, picks up the mail. He tears up Nemo’s letter.


159 - EXT. PUBLIC PARK — DAY

It is winter. Nemo is near the lighthouse where he and Anna said
they would meet. He is alone, sitting on a bench. The park is
deserted. Nemo closes his eyes and concentrates.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              Anna... Can you hear me?


160 - EXT. NEW YORK — DAY

It is winter. Anna is walking down a street, over a bridge. She
closes her eyes...




                               - 72 -
                                               "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ANNA (OFF)
              Nemo... I talk to you all the time.
              Sometimes    I     have     trouble
              remembering   your    face.   So    I
              reconstruct you in my mind, inch by
              inch, until I can see you again...


161 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — DAY

It is snowing outside. Movers are carrying boxes from the house as
the mother directs them. The mother picks up the mail under the
door. She discretely tears up a letter and throws it away.


162 - INT./EXT. MISC. — DAY/NIGHT

Nemo slips an envelope into a mailbox.

162A - We see the path the letter follows. The address is
optically scanned. The letter enters an automated routing system.
It is bundled with other letters, all tied together. The bundle is
thrown in with others in big canvas bags. The bags are
transported. The bags are opened. The strings around the bundles
are cut. The letters are sorted into small slots. A stamp hits the
letter: “NO LONGER AT THIS ADDRESS.”


163 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — EVENING

Nemo is holding the letter. The apartment is almost empty. Nemo is
at the table, across from his mother. His eyes are red from
crying. He stares at his plate with no appetite.

                        MOTHER
              Come on, eat your zucchini. It’ll
              do you good.

Nemo looks hopelessly at the slices of zucchini in his plate.


164 - EDUCATIONAL TV PROGRAM

A zucchini plant in a garden, with its big leaves. Adult Nemo
appears in superimposition, speaking to the camera.

                        ADULT NEMO
              Does the zucchini know pain?

A caterpillar moves across a leaf and begins eating it. We see the
zucchini plant in cross-section. A red glow appears in the roots
and spreads through the stems. Adult Nemo’s face reflected on the
teleprompter. The text goes by.




                               - 73 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ADULT NEMO (CONT.)
              When the insect bites into the
              leaf, the plant finds a bitter
              substance in its roots that it
              diffuses into the leaves to make
              them inedible.

The insect abandons the leaf. On another leaf, a kind of beetle is
cutting a circular trench.

                        ADULT NEMO (CONT.)
              Epilachna borealis has found how to
              block that move: they cut a
              circular trench through the leaf
              before the bitterness reaches it
              and feed on the inside.

The insect eats the edible disk.

                         ADULT NEMO (CONT.)
              What does the zucchini feel? Is it
              pain?   Is    information   carried
              chemically    less   painful   than
              information carried by a nervous
              system? Does the zucchini cry out
              when you chew it?


165 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — EVENING

The mother is chewing a mouthful of zucchini. Nemo looks at the
slices in his plate.

                        MOTHER
              We need to look to the future. It
              will be good to change houses, to
              have a new life...

                        NEMO
              Will we have a pool?

                        MOTHER
              You hate water. You don’t know how
              to swim. You never know what you
              want.

                           NEMO
              I do know.

                        MOTHER
              That’s news. And what is it you
              want?

                        NEMO
              I know what I don’t want.



                                  - 74 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        MOTHER
              So what is it you don’t want?                          *

                        NEMO
              I don’t want to be like you.

The mother registers the blow.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              You know nothing about me. I’ve
              always loved pools. When I’m older,
              I’ll have a pool.


166 - EXT. VILLA — MORNING

Adult Nemo is using a net to fish leaves from the surface of a
magnificent pool in the garden of a magnificent villa. His
gestures are calm and precise. An idyllic image. His hair is
longer and his is unshaven.

A man in a bathrobe comes out of the house and hands him some
money. Nemo thanks him and climbs into a truck marked “Pool
Maintenance” with two colleagues.


167 - INT. URBAN TRAIN STATION — DAY

Nemo is leaving the station. On the big clock, the time reads
9:12. In the corridor, he passes a girl with a shaved head who is
panhandling, sitting on the ground. He gives her some change. A
voice calls out:

                        VOICE
              Anna!

Nemo startles and turns back. It is a father calling to his little
girl.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              Anna... I feel like I’ll be seeing                     *
              you at every street corner...

The clouds move faster, then slow down again. The station clock
reads 9:21. Anna steps out of the station. She is thirty-five. She
passes CLARA, the panhandling girl with the shaved head and gives
her some change. The girl looks at Anna, intrigued.


168 - EXT. URBAN STATION — DAY

There is a square in front of the station. Anna sits down at an
outdoor café. She orders a cup of coffee. Nemo is sitting a dozen
yards away from her. Their backs are to each other. Nemo
distractedly watches people going by. They don’t see each other.



                             - 75 -
                                               "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ANNA (OFF)
              Sometimes I tell myself maybe you
              live in the same town I do and I
              don’t know it. Maybe you’re here,
              very close. Nemo ... do you still
              hear my voice?

Nemo looks at the sky. He takes a picture of the clouds with a
Polaroid. The pool maintenance truck stops nearby. Nemo gets in.

When Anna turns around distractedly, he is already gone.


169 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM (2092) — DAY

                        OLD NEMO
              Tick t o c k tick t o c k ... Nine
              minutes... Separated by an ocean of
              nine minutes... Tick tock tick
              tock...

A cleaning woman unplugs a machine cleaning the floor around Old
Nemo’s bed. She isn’t listening to him.


170 - INT. NEMO’S INDUSTRIAL LOFT — NIGHT

Nemo goes into a very empty old factory. The walls are bare brick.
There is no furniture, only a mattress lying on the floor, one
table, one chair... Nemo walks past a picture of teenage Anna, on
prominent display. He tacks up the Polaroid of the clouds next to
hundreds of others on the wall.


171 - EXT. NEMO AND ELISE’S STREET — DAY

Behind the wheel of his car, Nemo — his hair short — is on his way
home with the shopping. It is raining. At the corner of his
street, he sees Elise walking barefoot through the rain, in her
bathrobe, crying. Nemo gets out of the car, tries to take her in
his arms. She struggles.

                        ELISE
              I’m leaving! I’m leaving!

Neighbors come to see what’s happening. Nemo manages to get her
into the car. She bursts out sobbing. She slaps herself, taps her
head against the windshield, pulls her hair, scratches her face.
With each slap she says:

                        ELISE (CONT.)
              Take that! And that! And that!

Nemo tries to keep her from hurting herself.




                            - 76 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




172 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE — DAY

Bottles of medication sit on the bedside table. Elise is lying
down, her eyes closed. Nemo lies down next to her. He notices,
bizarrely, that a price tag is still attached to the bedside lamp.
He pulls it off and looks at it, puzzled.

                        NEMO
              I’ve given my resignation letter.
              It’s better that way. I’ll find
              something else. One where I can be                     *
              at home more.

                        ELISE
              Do you love me?

                        NEMO
              I love your eyes. I love your
              mouth. I love your voice. I love
              how   you   move.    I  love    your
              cheekbones. I love the sound of
              your steps on the stairs. I love
              how you eat strawberries. You have
              a unique         way   of    eating                    *
              strawberries.

                        ELISE
              You love all that, but me, do you
              love me?

                        NEMO
              I couldn’t live without you.


173 - INT. OR EXT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE OR YARD — DAY

There is noise, music. Nemo is hanging a garland from the ceiling.
The children are helping him. The kids are running around,
laughing. Guests arrive, Joyce’s school friends. The older ones
dance, jumping up and down. Nemo wanders among the children
handing out pieces of cake. He is wearing a small pointed hat, and
is really having fun. Joyce grabs his arm as he goes by, smiling.
She shouts:

                        JOYCE
              Life is great, Dad!

She laughs joyously. Nemo prepares a meal tray.


174 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S ROOM — DAY

Nemo goes into the room. Elise is in bed. He puts the meal tray
down on the bed.



                            - 77 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ELISE
              I can’t stand it anymore... I want
              to die... And that noise!

                        NEMO
              I’ll ask them to keep it down. But
              it’s Joyce’s birthday...

                        ELISE
              Don’t I have the right to a little
              respect?

Nemo goes silent.

                        ELISE
              What kind of a mother am I? I’ve
              got to get up.

Elise gets out of her bed.


175 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE - DAY

Elise comes down the stairs in her bathrobe. She slips in among
the children and leads them in a farandole , with perhaps a touch
too much energy and enthusiasm. The children are amazed at first.
Elise laughs. She crawls on all fours behind guffawing children.
She climbs onto the table and plays the orchestra conductor.
Everyone is having fun. Nemo, a bit to the side, watches the
scene, moved.


176 - INT. CHILDREN’S ROOM — NIGHT

Elise lying on one of the children’s beds, her three children all
lying close to her, asleep. Nemo lies down beside her. He puts his
arm around her. She lets him.

                         ELISE
              It was a nice day. The nicest in a
              long time.


177 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S ROOM — MORNING

Elise comes into the room. She is having a hard time breathing.
Nemo follows her in.

                        ELISE (CONT.)
              Oh no... It’s back... The terror is                    *
              back... I’m scared...

                        NEMO
              Do you want your pills?                                *




                             - 78 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ELISE
              I’m sick of pills. I’m sick of
              doctors.   It’s   pointless. I’m
              afraid... I’m afraid...

She starts shaking and crying. Nemo is sitting on the edge of the
bed.

                        ELISE (CONT.)
              Do something! ... I can’t stand it
              any more. I’m afraid.

Nemo lies down next to her. He touches her. She pulls her hand
away.

                       NEMO
              I don’t know what to do. I often
              have this dream. Some prehistoric
              time.


178 - MODEL — DAY

A child’s hand places a plastic bear in front of a cave entrance.


179 - EXT. PREHISTORY — DAY

Elise is a prehistoric woman carrying a baby. She is alone in the
cave. She screams.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              I hear    you screaming.    You’re
              afraid.

Nemo, as a caveman, runs toward the screams. The cave opens onto a
background which is an old black-and-white film. Bears (or
mammoths) approach the cave. Nemo stands in front of the cave and
hollers, pretending to throw his spear. The predators wander off.
Nemo takes Elise in his arms to reassure her.

                         NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              I chase the bear. It runs away and
              you’re not afraid anymore. When I
              wake up...


180 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S ROOM — DAY

Nemo wakes with a start, sits up in the bed. Elise’s eyes are
open. She is terrified.

                        NEMO
              When I wake up, you’re       still
              afraid. There’s no bear.



                              - 79 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




181 - EXT. ZOO — DAY

Nemo is sitting on a bench at the zoo, watching a sleeping bear
behind the bars of its cage.

                        NEMO
              I’m not a bear hunter. I’m an                          *
              executive   of   a   plant    that                     *
              manufactures photocopy ing machines,                   *
              who quit his job. I don’t dare                         *
              move. My life adds up to nothing .                     *
              Whatever I do, it’s a disaster. I
              would so love to chase the bear                        *
              away and for you not to be afraid                      *
              anymore.


182 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S ROOM - DAY

Nemo puts his hand on Elise. She pulls away roughly.

                        ELISE
              I don’t want to be touched.

                         NEMO
              Why?

                        ELISE
              I don’t know. That’s just how it
              is. People can choose not to be                        *
              touched. I’m free not to want it.

                         NEMO
              Free...


183 - EDUCATIONAL FILM

183A - Eggs are placed in an incubator. We see the shells crack,
the little beaks pushing from inside. The baby birds emerge from
the eggs. Adult Nemo is facing the camera, in overlay, commenting:

                        NEMO
              To what extent are our fears
              innate? When we hatch goose eggs in
              an incubator, and then above the                       *
              baby birds, pass a form simulating                     *
              two wings with a long neck – like a                    *
              goose in flight – the birds stretch                    *
              their necks and call out.




                                - 80 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



A scientist passes a cardboard cutout above the baby birds,
clearly visible against the white ceiling, wings back and neck
forward. The baby birds stretch their necks and call out to what
they take to be their mother.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              But if we invert the direction of
              the silhouette, it conjures the                         *
              shape of a falcon, wings forward                        *
              and long tail behind. The response                      *
              of the baby birds is immediate:
              they will crouch in fear, though                        *
              they’ve never before seen a falcon.

The scientist inverts the flight direction of the model, and the
birds immediately lie down motionless in their nest, without a
sound, trying to go unnoticed.

                        NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              Without any instruction, an innate
              fear helps them survive. But in
              humans, to what ancient dangers
              might our innate fears correspond?                      *

183B - A mouse. A spider. A snake. A crusading knight. A soldier
from the First World War rapes a woman. Insects.


184- FLASH

In the forest. Dead Nemo’s feet sticking out from under a bush. He
is missing a shoe. Someone out for a walk comes near the body and
notices it. The scene is shot backwards, the movements are in
reverse.


185 - EXT. NEMO AND ELISE’S STREET - DAY

Nemo arrives home, his arms laden with groceries.


186 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE - DAY

Short flashes. Elise swallowing a handful       of   pills.   Lying
motionless, at the foot of the stairs.


187 - EXT. NEMO AND ELISE’S STREET — DAY

Nemo drops his bags and starts running.


188 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE — DAY

Nemo runs into the house. Elise is not at the foot of the stairs.



                            - 81 -
                                                 "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



188A- In the bedroom, We see Elise hang up the phone. Nemo bursts
into the bedroom. Elise is in bed. Her eyes are closed. Nemo
exhales, relieved.

188B - Nemo goes to sit in a small recess where he has set up his
old typewriter. He writes...


189 - INT. SPACESHIP — NIGHT

The spaceship is approaching Mars. The retrorockets blaze. We see
a city getting nearer, under an enormous glass dome. The spaceship
is approaching Phobos, linked by a space elevator.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              Probably the worst thing about                           *
              being on Mars is that nothing will                       *
              happen  there.   Time  will seem                         *
              stalled and empty. A long Martian
              year of 779 24-hour-and-37-minute
              days.                                                    *


190 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE — DAY

Nemo’s typewriter. He isn’t writing anymore. He is sitting on a
chair. He looks out the window, the leaves are moving, swept
lightly by the wind. Then the shadows cast by the leaves on the
wall...

190A - A fly lands on his hand. He doesn’t move. Nemo follows it
with his eye, without reacting. Nemo looks at a drop of water
dripping off a radiator pipe. The drop hits the ground in a small
puddle. Nemo observes it but does nothing.


191 - INT. CAR WASH — DAY

Soapsuds spread across the windshield, swept by a noisy, spinning
brush. It’s pretty. Jets of water push the suds to the side
windows. The car moves forward on its own, pulled by the
mechanism. Nemo is in the car. He seems to enjoy the show. It
relaxes him.


192 - EXT. RAILROAD CROSSING — DAY

Nemo stops at a railroad crossing. A train passes in front of him.

192A - We follow the train. We fly next to it.




                               - 82 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




193 - INT. TRAIN - DAY

We go into one of the compartments. Nemo, hair long, is sitting in
the train.


194 - INT. CITY STATION — DAY

It is 9:12. The station is full of people. Nemo turns into the
hall as he does every day. He walks past a pile of boxes along the
wall. He stops. A hand is sticking out of the boxes. Nemo
approaches and picks them up. Underneath is the motionless face of
Clara, the panhandling girl. Next to her lie a syringe and a
rubber tourniquet. The girl’s face is pale, her eyes open and
motionless.


195 - INT. CITY STATION — DAY

A bit later. The ambulance drivers take the girl’s body away on a
stretcher. Nemo is there and watches her go. He picks up his
jacket. He looks at the time on the big clock. It is 9:21.

A gust of wind sets papers flying. Nemo sees Anna’s silhouette
coming toward him from the end of the hall. He can’t believe his
eyes. She comes closer. She is heading right toward him. Nemo and
Anna look at each other... astounded. They walk toward each other.
They fall into each other’s arms, without saying a word. They hold
each other tight, looking into each other’s eyes.

                          NEMO
                Anna...

                          ANNA
                Nemo...

They embrace.


196 - INT. NEMO’S WAREHOUSE LOFT — DAY/NIGHT

Nemo and Anna embrace. They dance around Nemo’s half-empty
apartment. They fall onto the mattress on the ground. They look
tirelessly into each other’s eyes. They make love. Motionless,
they hold tightly to each other, naked, each holding the other as
if to keep from getting lost. Anna smells Nemo’s skin, inch by
inch. She smiles.

They are lying in the bath, close together. They make circles.

                          NEMO
                There is no life without you.                         *

Anna holds a finger to his lips.



                                 - 83 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ANNA
              Shhh... Gently. I have to get used
              to it. I talked to you so much                         *
              while you weren’t there, it’s
              strange to talk to you for real.

They are lying on the bed.


197 - EXT. CITY — NIGHT/DAY

They are sitting on a bench. Holding tightly together, they watch.
It is night. Then the sun rises. Then there are a few cars. Then
the garbage men collect the garbage. Then children go to school.
Then people walk quickly on their way to work.

                        ANNA
              I like it. I like watching time...

                        NEMO
              ... go by...

                        ANNA
              ... with you.

Then the trucks deliver their merchandise. Then the local laborers
eat lunch. Then the children get out of school. It rains.

                        NEMO
              It’s raining.

                           ANNA
              We’ll dry.

Then people walk quickly on their way home from work. It is no
longer raining. Then the restaurants light their signs. Then it is
evening. Anna and Nemo haven’t moved an inch.

                        ANNA (CONT.)
              It was the most beautiful day. And                     *
              the most beautiful night. Thank                        *
              you.

She kisses him.

                        ANNA (CONT.)
              I need a little time. When we were
              separated at fifteen, I said I
              would never love anyone else, ever.
              I would never become attached. I’d
              never stay put anywhere. I’d have
              nothing for myself. Then one day I
              decided to pretend to live.

They look at each other.



                                  - 84 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ANNA (CONT.)
              And this is what I’ve been waiting
              for, ever since we were separated:
              renouncing all possible lives for
              one only, with you. But I need a
              little time. I’m not used to it
              anymore...to loving. I’m afraid of
              losing you again. I’m afraid of
              having to do without you again. I’m
              terrified of that.

                        NEMO
              But I want to see you again. When?

She smiles.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              You don’t like it when you can read
              life like a book.                                          *

She writes a number with a felt-tip marker on a scrap of paper.
She hands it to him.

                        ANNA
              Call me on this number in two days.                        *
              You just have to say the word. I’ll                        *
              meet you near the lighthouse. I’ll
              be with you forever. But if you’re
              not   sure,   don’t   call.  I’ll
              understand.

She kisses him. She gets up. Nemo hesitates. He looks at the slip
of paper. He watches her leave. She turns a corner. A storm
rumbles in the distance.


198 - EXT. SKY THEN CITY — DAY

High in the sky, a drop of water condenses out of a cloud and
falls from several miles up. It nears the earth, the city.

198A - It falls between the buildings, approaches a man motionless
on the sidewalk, Nemo, and lands on the small scrap of paper he is
holding in his hand, erasing the phone number and leaving only a
streak of ink in the rain. The ink runs over his fingers. The ink
runs over his hand, down his arm. An exaggeratedly large puddle of
ink flows around his feet, in the rain. It flows all the way to
the gutter. The scrap of paper is drenched and blank.


199 - INT. HOSPITAL — NIGHT

Old Nemo is laughing. He is playing       chess    by   himself.   The
journalist is listening and recording.




                              - 85 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        OLD NEMO
              You want me to tell you why I lost
              Anna? Because two months earlier,
              an unemployed Brazilian boiled an
              egg...


200 - INT. APARTMENT IN BRAZIL — DAY

A fifty-year-old Brazilian in his underwear in a small run-down
apartment is sitting at his stove, a spoon in his hand. We see Rio
through the window. He is cooking himself a soft-boiled egg. The
water is boiling and giving off steam.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              The heat will create a microclimate
              in the room, a slight difference of
              temperature...

The steam fills the room... It is extracted through the kitchen
ventilator. We go through the tube, following the steam. At the
end of the tube we see clouds.


201 - EXT. SKY THEN CITY — DAY

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              ...and heavy rain two months later
              on the other side of the world.                        *

A drop of water condenses out of a cloud and falls. It nears the
earth, falls between the buildings, and lands on the small scrap
of paper Nemo is holding in his hand, erasing the phone number.


202 - INT. APARTMENT IN BRAZIL — DAY

The Brazilian in front of his stove.

                         CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              That Brazilian will be boiling an
              egg instead of being at work. He
              will have lost his job in a
              clothing factory because six months
              earlier...


203 - INT. NEMO’S LOFT — DAY

Nemo pulls the tag off a pair of pants and puts it in his closet.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              ...I will have compared the prices
              of jeans, and I will have bought
              the cheaper pair...



                               - 86 -
                                               "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




204 - EXT. BAMBOO FOREST — DAY

A bamboo leaf in the snow. A pile of snow forms on the leaf. A
flake adds itself to the other flakes. The leaf bends and the pile
of snow falls.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              As the Chinese proverb says, a                         *
              single snowflake can bend the leaf                     *
              of the bamboo.                                         *


205 - INT. ASIAN FACTORY — DAY

A clothing factory in Asia. Rows of sewing machines, men and women
and children assembling clothes.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              Jeans production will have moved to                    *
              other countries...                                     *


206 - INT./EXT. MISC. — DAY

The Brazilian at his stove. The boiling egg.

206A - The drop of falling rain.

206B - Nemo in the rain looking at the blank paper.


207 - EXT. CITY PARK — DAY

                        OLD NEMO                                     *
              I lost every trace of Anna.       I
              waited for her. Every day.

Nemo is sitting on the bench, near the lighthouse: the meeting
place. His hair has grown longer. He is waiting. The beam from the
lighthouse turns in the darkness. Flashes of light illuminate his
face at regular intervals.


208 - INT. PSYCHIATRIST’S OFFICE — NIGHT

The metal ball swings regularly.


209 - EXT. STREET — DAY                                              *

Nemo is in front of his house, the bottle of car polish in his
hand.

(...) He rubs the chrome painstakingly.



                              - 87 -
                                               "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



(...) People go by in the street. He is still rubbing.

End of the day. He is rubbing still. The children come home from
school and give him a kiss as they go inside.

Elise is at the window.


210 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE — DAY

Nemo brings a dinner tray to Elise. Elise looks at him strangely.

                        NEMO
              You’re not hungry?

                        ELISE
              I don’t want anything. Nothing...
              What are you doing tomorrow?

                        NEMO
              I think I’ll take the opportunity
              to wash the car.

Elise looks at him with some apprehension.

                        ELISE
              What’s the deal with that car?

                        NEMO
              What do you mean?

                        ELISE
              Why do you take such good care of
              that car while you leave me all
              alone? What’s the problem with that
              car?

Nemo looks at her. He gets up and leaves very calmly.


211 - EXT. STREET — DAY

Nemo steps out of the garage carrying a can of gas. He walks very
calmly to the car and pours gas all over it. He takes out a
lighter and sets it on fire. He returns to the house without
looking back. The car ignites.


212 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S ROOM — DAY

He goes into the room where Elise is looking dumbfounded out the
window.




                            - 88 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NEMO
              So, there’s no more problem with
              the car.

Elise looks at him, somewhat frightened. She gets back into bed.
Nemo goes to look out the window. He is surprised.

212A - The car is in the street, intact. He can’t believe it. The
street looks like a scale model.

212B - Workmen are rolling up a huge roll between the houses: the
street. Nemo turns back toward the bed.

212C - A woman is lying there. It is no longer Elise. It is Jean.
He looks at her, surprised. The bedroom is almost empty.

                        JEAN (ELISE’S VOICE)
              What’s wrong? Why are you looking
              at me like that?


213 - INT. JEAN AND NEMO’S ROOM — DAY

Jean’s face moves closer to Nemo’s. They are both lying on the
bed. He looks around, lost.

                         JEAN
              Ne mo ... Do I take sugar in my
              coffee? Can you please answer me?

Nemo doesn’t know what to say.

                        JEAN (CONT.)
              You don’t know me, Nemo. You’ve
              never really looked at me. You’ve                      *
              always been elsewhere. Do you
              realize how much you’ve hurt me?                       *

Nemo’s eyes are drawn to the television.

213A - The local news is broadcasting images of a fire on a
bridge, clearly labeled “ARCHIVES.” Charred automobiles, including
a car of newlyweds bearing a “Just Married” sign, which now reads
“Just Fried.”

                        JEAN (CONT.)
              I got a call from the lawyer. He
              says you’ve just put everything you
              own in my name. Why, Nemo? What are
              up to?... Nemo...




                            - 89 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




214 - INT. HOSPITAL — DAY

Breathing sounds. Teenage Nemo is lying on a hospital bed,
motionless, a prisoner of his body, hooked up to machines.
Silence. We sense a silhouette moving near him.

                        TEENAGE NEMO (OFF)
              ...The ground doesn’t vibrate the
              same way. It’s a different perfume.
              How old might she be? Twenty-five?
              There are other people, too.

Nemo’s father is sitting in the room, defeated. Nemo’s mother
comes in. The father looks at her, surprised. They are moved to
see each other again. They sit in silence, next to each other,
looking at Nemo. The nurse attends to Nemo.

                        TEENAGE NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              Let’s begin again. Fingers on the
              keyboard. Left hand A-S-D-F , right
              hand H-J-K-L.                                         *


215 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE - NIGHT

In the little room in the house with Elise, adult Nemo places his
fingers on a keyboard: A-S-D-F and J-K-L-M. The fingers begin
typing.


216 - INT. SPACESHIP — NIGHT

Sound of typewriter keys. We see the surface of Mars approaching.
The rocket begins making contact with Phobos. A deodorizing pine
tree swings...


217 - INT./EXT. MISC. DAY/NIGHT

The swinging of the doctor’s pendulum in front of old Nemo’s
eyes...

217A - Swaying branches...

217B - A swing...

217C - The three little girls...

217D - The deodorizing swinging...

217E - The lighthouse beam turning...




                               - 90 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




218 - EXT. TRAIN STATION — DAY

Child Nemo is running after the train that is taking his mother
away. He holds out his hand to her. The train gathers speed. Their
hands grow further apart.


219 - INT. OFFICE IN NEMO AND JEAN’S HOUSE — NIGHT

Nemo’s motionless hand above the candle flame. The sound of the TV
has been muted.

219A - The local news is showing images of a fire on a bridge.
Jean’s picture sits on the desk. The cars are burning.

Indifferent, Nemo sits in the darkness, his hand over the flame.
He keeps it there as long as he can. He pulls it back, looks at
his hand, does not suffer. He has a burn in the hollow of his
palm. Nemo turns toward the muted television.

219B - A presenter is spinning the wheel of fortune. The wheel
stops at a number.

Nemo picks up a coin from the edge of the table. He studies it. He
stabs it with the point of a knife, engraving “yes” on one side,
“no” on the other.

219D - An ad for fishing rods is on TV. He writes “Buy fishing rod
X...”

He tosses the coin in the air and catches it. “Yes.” He takes his
coat. He walks past the stairs. He hesitates, tosses heads or
tails: “Yes.”

                        NEMO
              Jean! I’m off to buy a fishing rod.                    *

219C - Nemo goes out of the house leaving the door open behind
him. He walks away in the night. When Jean comes down the stairs,
he is already gone.


220 - EXT. TRAIN TRACKS — NIGHT

Nemo is walking down some railroad tracks. It is dark. An arrow
points in one direction. Nemo follows it. Nemo stops to take out a
cigarette. In the distance, a locomotive is coming toward him. He
lights the cigarette. He takes his coin and tosses it. Nemo puts
the coin back in his pocket and watches the train come toward him.
He hears a voice and turns to look.

                        CLARA
              Got a light?




                            - 91 -
                                               "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



Nemo turns around. He sees a woman in the shadows, sitting on the
gravel, semi-punk/semi-tramp her backpack next to her. It’s Clara
(the young woman who died in the station). She shows him her unlit
cigarette. Nemo holds out his lighter to her, without taking a
step. The train is coming right toward Nemo. Nemo doesn’t budge.
Clara holds out her cigarette. She waits for him to come over.
Nemo steps off the tracks and lights her cigarette. The train
passes behind them with a deafening roar.

                           CLARA (CONT.)
              Thanks.

She starts walking. He follows her. After about ten yards:

                        CLARA (CONT.)
              Why are you following me?

                        NEMO
              I don’t know.

                        CLARA
              I’ve got nothing to do with you,
              and you’ve got nothing to do with
              me. I’m not interested. Get lost.                      *

She turns around. He doesn’t leave. She comes toward him and
kisses him.

                           CLARA (CONT.)
              Follow me.                                             *

Nemo tosses his coin. “Yes.”

                           NEMO
              Yes.


221 - INT. CLARA’S SQUAT — NIGHT

Clara and Nemo enter a tiny, messy apartment where she has been
squatting. She kisses Nemo.

                        NEMO
              Is there someone in your life?

                        CLARA
              Not really.

She undresses him, pushes him onto the bed.

The music is blasting, distorted. Straddling Nemo, Clara is making
love frenetically. It’s almost an hysterical dance.

The sound of keys. The door opens, a man comes in. He is about
thirty and is wearing a leather jacket.



                                  - 92 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                           CLARA (CONT.)
              Shit.

The man, taken aback, looks at Nemo in bed with Clara. Nemo
doesn’t react.

                        JULIAN
              Who’s he? What the fuck ’s he doing                    *
              here?

                        CLARA
              Julian, calm down.

The man starts smashing everything around him, overturning the
furniture. Clara, naked, tries to control him. Nemo laughs, naked,
on all fours. Julian breaks a chair over his back. Nemo collapses,
laughing even harder. Julian leaves, leaving the door open behind
him. Everything has been turned upside down. Nemo looks at the
devastated apartment. Nemo has not moved from the bed. He laughs.
Everything has happened very fast. Clara gets back in bed next to
him.

                        CLARA
              Do you love me?

Nemo flips his coin. “No.” He hesitates.

                           NEMO
              Yes.

                       CLARA
              Why do you let a coin decide for
              you?

                       NEMO
              It makes better decisions than I
              do.


222 - INT. CLARA’S SQUAT — NIGHT

Nemo is awake, Clara asleep. Nemo flips his coin. He takes his
coat and leaves.


223 - INT. AIRPORT — DAY

Nemo is wandering around the airport. He walks the halls. At
arrivals, people are waiting with signs.

Nemo sees a black man, dressed to the nines, holding a sign marked
“MR. D. JONES.” He watches him. He flips his coin. “Yes.” Nemo
goes toward the man.




                                  - 93 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                           MAN
              Mr. Jones.

                           NEMO
              Yes.

                        MAN
              Welcome. We’ve already got     your
              luggage. Please, follow me.


224 - INT. LIMOUSINE — DAY

The man and Nemo are in a limousine.

                        MAN
              Did you have a nice trip?

                        NEMO
              Yes, thank you.

                        MAN
              I’ll take you to your hotel, where
              you can rest for a while. The
              appointment is tomorrow at three.                      *

Nemo says nothing.


225 - INT. HOTEL ROOM — DAY

Nemo enters a luxurious hotel room. The bellboy puts down his
suitcase and leaves. Nemo opens the suitcase. He takes out a
sweater, feels it, puts it on, looks at himself in the mirror. It
looks good on him. He studies some pictures. An unknown woman. He
finds a planning calendar. He flips through it. He looks at the
ID. He looks at the face in the picture. He reads the name: Daniel
Jones.

                        NEMO
              Daniel... Daniel Jones...

He looks at himself in the mirror. He combs his hair differently,
like in the ID photo. The telephone rings. Nemo takes the coin
from his pocket. Flips it. “Yes.” He answers.

                           NEMO (CONT.)
              Hello?

                           TELEPHONE VOICE
              Daniel?

                           NEMO
              Yes.




                                  - 94 -
                                                 "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        TELEPHONE VOICE
              Are you insane? What are you doing?                      *
              Split!                                                   *

                         NEMO
              ...

                        TELEPHONE VOICE
              I told you not to go! They’re
              furious, they know it’s you! Clear
              out!

The man hangs up. Nemo lies   down on the bed. He flips his coin. As
it spins, the wind opens      the window, catching the drapes and
causing a gust of air that     changes the way the coin turns. Nemo
catches it. He runs himself   a bath.


226 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM — NIGHT

                        JOURNALIST
              Is your name Daniel Jones?

                        OLD NEMO
              Of course not.


227 - INT. BATHROOM — DAY

Nemo is in his bath. His head is sticking out of the water. He is
waiting, motionless. He closes his eyes. He falls asleep...

Nemo opens his eyes. There is a man sitting in front of him on a
stool, a revolver in his hand. A plastic sheet is spread out on
the floor. Nemo watches without moving. The man fires. Nemo
collapses in the water, which turns red. The red blood mixes
through the water in twisting swirls.

Another man comes into the bathroom. He is carrying two pairs of
shoes.

                          SECOND THUG
              T h a t ’ s weird. His     shoes   are                   *
              different sizes.                                         *

They close the plastic sheet around Nemo and wrap the body in the
blanket.


228 - EXT. WOODS — DAY

A car with the two thugs on board stops in the woods. The two men
remove the body from the trunk.




                                - 95 -
                                               "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        FIRST THUG
              Maybe he shrunk. It happens when                       *
              you get older, you shrink.

                        SECOND THUG
              No one shrinks. That’s rubbish.                        *
              You’ve got the wrong bloke, that’s                     *
              all.

                        FIRST THUG
              Astronauts shrink two inches when                      *
              they come back to earth, ‘cuz of
              gravity or something.

                         SECOND THUG
              You   think    this    fella’s   an                    *
              astronaut?

They finish dumping the body in a thicket. Only Nemo’s feet are
visible, sticking out. He is missing a shoe. Insects climb over
his foot.


229 - EXT./INT. BUS ON MARS — DAY                                    *

Rockets leave white trails in the pink sky. A bus full of tourists
of every origin: Indians in saris, Africans, Asians. Nemo is among
them, looking out the window, the urn on his knees. A red desert
spreads out around them. We are on the planet Mars. A speaker
plays Chinese music.

                        LOUDSPEAKER
              To your left, the Valles Marineris
              and the summit of the Tharsis Dome.
              Above, we can see the two moons,                       *
              Phobos and Deimos. We’ll be driving
              through the canyon to avoid road                       *
              works.                                                 *

We see two moons in the sky. One rocket and then another takes
off. The rockets leave lines of white vapor in the pink sky. avoid
the road work. A gigantic glass dome hangs over the desert. Four
dromedaries wander in the distance. Billboards for vacuum
cleaners. Nemo takes the urn from his bag and opens the window.

He removes the lid, holds the urn out the window, in the wind.
Wisps of gray dust dissipate behind the bus.


230 - FLASH

On a bridge, an enormous fire. A gasoline truck explodes. A car
bearing a “Just Married” sign is on fire. Elise, in a wedding
dress, is caught in the flames. Nemo tries to get her out of the
car.



                            - 96 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




231 - EXT. BUS ON MARS — DAY

Nemo is still looking out the bus window. Gray dust has stuck to
his hand. He rubs it. He has dust under his fingernails.

                        PERSON IN THE NEXT SEAT
              Do you need a tissue?                                   *


232 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE — NIGHT

A typewriter. On the paper appear the letters “Do you need a          *
tissue?” Adult Nemo is in his small office at his typewriter.

232A - It is the middle of the night. Nemo opens the door a crack
and checks on his sleeping children.

232B - He goes into the bedroom and sits down on the bed. He
watches Elise sleep. He gently strokes her cheek. She opens her
eyes and sees him. She starts crying.

                        NEMO
              What’s wrong?

                        ELISE
              I was dreaming about Stefano.

                        NEMO
              That made you cry?

She breaks down sobbing.

                        ELISE
              He never answers my messages. He
              doesn’t give a damn about me...

                           NEMO
              Stefano?

                        ELISE
              I love him!

Nemo registers the blow. Elise keeps sobbing.

                         ELISE (CONT.)
              I    don’t     see    any  other
              explanation...for being in this
              state. That’s the only thing it can
              be. I love him.

                        NEMO
              Did he say he loved you?                                *




                                  - 97 -
                                                   "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ELISE
              He never said he didn’t love me.

Nemo is stunned. He doesn’t understand anything anymore.

                        ELISE (CONT.)
              I know, I’m crazy. Every morning ,
              when I wake up and open my eyes and
              I see you , I start cryi ng ... I
              realize I’m with you , and my life
              is passing by.                                             *

She looks at him and slaps him.

                        ELISE (CONT.)
              How can you be so calm? How can you
              bear that? You...you’re not human!

Nemo starts crying. She touches his hand. He grabs hers, takes it,
holds it to him.

                        ELISE (CONT.)
              Everything’s all wrong... I’m a
              complete wreck... I don’t know what                        *
              to do... It’s not my fault, right?
              You’re not going to leave me, are
              you?

He holds her in his arms.

                        NEMO
              I couldn’t live without you.

                        ELISE
              I hurt everyone. You, the children.
              It can’t go on.                                            *

                        NEMO
              Together we can make it work.

                        ELISE
              If I stay, you’ll        all   end   up
              drowning in my mess.                                       *

                        NEMO
              We’ll learn to swim.

Elise closes her eyes. They lie down next to each other. Nemo
takes her in his arms. She holds his hand.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              I love you...

                        ELISE
              I love you...



                            - 98 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




233 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE — NIGHT

Nemo is asleep. Elise watches him sleep. She gets up slowly,
without making a sound. She opens the closet, takes out some
clothes, and packs a suitcase.


234 - EXT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE — NIGHT

Without a sound, Elise leaves the house carrying her suitcase. She
walks away on the sidewalk. The neighborhood is deserted and
silent.


235 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

The journalist is sitting next to old Nemo , who is playing chess
by himself.

                        JOURNALIST
              But... Did Elise die... or didn’t                      *
              she? I don’t get it. You can’t have                    *
              had children and not have had them.

                        OLD NEMO
              She left. No matter how long it                        *
              takes, things work out in the end,                     *
              finally. Even unhappily.                               *


236 - INT. THEATER/BEAUTY PARLOR — DAY

The curtain goes up on a theater stage. The set is a beauty
parlor. Child Nemo (age seven) sits alone. On stage, Elise is
sitting, prostrate on a chair. She is in her forties.

236A - We move toward her until we see cars driving by through a
window. We are no longer on a theater stage. Elise is looking at
the picture of Stefano. Two other hairdressers are working. A man
comes in. She doesn’t even glance at him.

                        ELISE
              Hi.                                                    *

We don’t see his face right away. His hair is gray.

                        STEFANO                                      *
              Not too short on top, please.

Elise is lost in her thoughts, a bit sad. She doesn’t really look
at her client, only sees his hair. She shampoos him. She cuts his
hair, pulling it between her fingers. She runs the trimmer over
his neck. The hair falls to the ground. Elise trims around his
ears. She cuts a clean line at the neck. We see his face.



                            - 99 -
                                               "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11


It is Stefano. He has changed a lot, gotten fat. Only his eyes are
the same. They haven’t recognized each other. Stefano checks out
the hairdresser working at the next chair. She is younger,
prettier. Stefano looks at her legs. Elise massages his head.
Stefano has closed his eyes. Her movements are studied, efficient.
Stefano is enjoying it. He closes his eyes. She takes off the
cape, brushes his neck and shoulders.

                        STEFANO
              How much’ll that b...?

                        ELISE
              Tw... nty dollars,     pl…as…   Good-                  *
              by..., sir.                                            *

                        STEFANO
              H…r… you ar... By… And hav ... a                       *
              nic... aft...rnoon.                                    *


237 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE — NIGHT

The “e” is sticking on the old typewriter. Adult Nemo unsticks it.
The machine types an “e” on the paper.


238 - INT. THEATER/BEAUTY PARLOR — DAY

We return to the stage.

                        ELISE
              Twenty dollars, please... Good-bye,                    *
              sir.

                         STEFANO
              Here you are. Bye, and have a nice                     *
              afternoon.                                             *

Stefano leaves. They have not recognized each other. Elise goes to
sit down and returns to her thoughts. She looks at the picture of
young Stefano. She smokes a cigarette. The swirls of smoke dance
in the air.. We move back.

238A - The stage curtain comes down.


239 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Nemo finishes typing. He looks at the wall. Water runs down it
slowly. Nemo looks at his shoes. His feet are in the water. Nemo
goes to the hall door and opens it. A rush of water pours through
the door and pushes him back. The room is underwater. Nemo cannot
breathe. He struggles.




                           - 100 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




240 - EXT. UNDERWATER — DAY

The car sinks under the water... Water pours in through the half-
open window. There is no more air. Nemo struggles. Bubbles come
out of his mouth. He strikes at the door in vain... His gestures
slow...

                        NEMO (OFF)
              Shit ... I’ve got to go back...
              Start from the beginning... Start
              over again...                                          *


241 - INT. TV STUDIO — DAY

Nemo is facing the camera. He is presenting a science program. He
has a burn scar on his face.

                        NEMO
              Why does cigarette smoke never go
              back into the cigarette? Why do
              molecules spread away from each
              other? Why does a spilt drop of ink                    *
              never reform?                                          *

241A - In the background, swirling smoke filmed in slow motion. A
drop of ink dissolving in water. A vase breaking in slow motion. A
superimposed title: “ENTROPY.”

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              Because the universe moves toward
              dissipation. That is the principle
              of entropy, the tendency of the
              universe to evolve toward a state
              of increasing disorder.

241B - Images of the Big Bang. Galaxies, constellations.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              The principle of entropy is related
              to the “arrow of time,” a result of
              the expansion of the universe. But
              what will happen when gravitational
              forces counterbalance the force s of                   *
              expansion? Or if the energy of the
              quantum void proves too weak?

An image of galaxies ceasing to expand and contracting upon
themselves. The solar system comes to a halt in order to start
moving in the opposite direction.

                        NEMO (CONT.)




                              - 101 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11


              At that moment, the universe might
              enter its phase of contraction: the                     *
              BIG CRUNCH. What will become of
              time? Will it reverse?

241B1 - An image of a vase breaking on the ground, then, in
reverse, the pieces coming back together.

241A2 - Raindrops rise back into the sky.

241C - A baby returns to its mother’s womb.

241D - Images of a clock, cogs, a metronome.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              No one knows the answer. Perhaps
              what we call the universe is only a
              miniscule part of a much vaster
              cosmos. In that case, our universe
              would not be unique: it would be
              part of a MULTIVERSE. Different
              universes dispersed throughout the
              cosmos would have experienced their
              own expansion, each bubble of the
              mult ive rse    having   different
              properties, including the number of
              dimensions, spatial and temporal.
              But how can we imagine it? How can
              we understand the implications?
              “The most comprehensible thing
              about the universe” said Einstein                       *
              “is that it’s incomprehensible.”                        *

Music over the credits. The images stop moving behind Nemo. The
tape is rewound. The background goes blank, leaving a blue screen.
We are in a TV studio.

                        VOICE IN THE SPEAKERS
              Okay, that’s good for today.

                        NEMO
              Where’s Peter?

                        CONTINUITY GIRL
              Peter? He left an hour ago. I’m
              replacing him. I have selected take                     *
              three and take four.                                    *

                        NEMO
              I prefer it when he does it. I
              don’t   mean   you’re not good
              enough...but...




                           - 102 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        CONTINUITY GIRL
              Drop it, buddy. In life, you get                       *
              one take. If it’s bad, you just                        *
              deal with it.                                          *


242 - EXT. TV STUDIO — DAY

Nemo leaves the studio in no hurry. He takes his keys from his
pocket and looks at them, puzzled. He doesn’t recognize the
keychain: there’s a coin on it, with “yes” engraved on one side,
“no” on the other. Nemo gets into a car and drives away. He passes
the cyclist. He brakes and lets the cyclist go past. He starts off
again. The car clock advances one minute.


243 - EXT. WOODS — DAY

When Nemo’s car appears in the distance, the birds have already
flown away. The car continues on the way. Nemo reaches the river
and slows down. Police cars and fire trucks are blocking the road.
Nemo sees a crane pulling a car from the water. A car that looks
like his.

Nemo gets out of his car. A police officer keeps him from
approaching any further. Behind the wheel, he sees the lifeless
body of the assistant, Peter.

                          NEMO
              Oh, no!

                        POLICE OFFICER
              Did you know him?

                        NEMO
              Yes, he worked with me...


244 - INT. CHURCH — DAY

Nemo, dressed in black, goes into a church. It is a funeral
service. A coffin is in front of the altar, upon which is set a
picture of Peter. Nemo walks discreetly up the side aisle. He sees
the family of the deceased. He is upset. He advances a bit more.
Nemo sees the wife of the deceased, dressed in black. Nemo is
troubled. It is Anna. Her hair is longer than in the other life.
There are two children next to her.


245 - INT. CHURCH — DAY

People are emerging from the church, presenting their condolences
to the family. Nemo shakes Anna’s hand. They look each other in
the eye, feeling somewhat unsettled.




                             - 103 -
                                                   "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NEMO
              My sincerest condolences. Peter was
              a colleague...

                          ANNA
              Yes, of     course.   I’ve   seen   your
              show.

Nemo walks away. He sees Anna’s puzzled expression once more.


246 - EXT. UNDER WATER — DAY

Nemo is underwater, in the car. Algae are floating around him. He
is struggling. He is suffocating, screaming underwater... Bubbles
emerge from his mouth...


247 - EXT. NEMO AND ELISE’S STREET - DAY

Nemo parks in front of the house we know from his life with Elise.
A surprised neighbor stops to watch him enter his house.


248 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE — EVENING

Nemo goes into the house.

                          NEMO
              It’s me.

No answer. The house is decorated differently. There is no trace
of Elise or the children. On the mantel, a picture of young Elise
sits next to the urn.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              Did you have a nice day?

Nemo looks at goldfish swimming in an aquarium. He watches the
bubbles float to the surface.


249 - FLASH UNDER WATER

Bubbles floating to the surface.


250 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE - NIGHT

Nemo goes into a kind of laboratory in his garage. There is
equipment everywhere. A camera is filming an apple as it rots,
frame by frame. Nemo checks it. The light goes on once a minute.
He starts the camera, projecting the image onto a screen. We see a
wilted flower return to freshness... We see rotten fruit take on
its original color...



                             - 104 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11


We see a pile of dust expand into a swarming of insects, then the
teeming pile slowly becomes the body of a dead mouse that comes
back to life...


251 - INT. NEMO AND ELISE’S HOUSE — NIGHT

Nemo is eating by himself. Across the table, he has set a place
for a second person who is not there.

251A - Nemo slips into a big bed all alone. He turns out the
light.

                           NEMO
              Goodnight.

He goes to sleep.


252 - FLASH — DREAM

A few brief flashes. Nemo and Elise are twenty. They are getting
married. They drive off in a car marked “Just Married.”

252A - They come to a bridge. A tanker truck blows up. Nemo runs
in circles, carrying Elise’s dead body, in her wedding dress. His
face is burned.


253 - EXT./INT. BUS ON MARS/MEGALOPOLIS - NIGHT

On Mars, Adult Nemo is looking pensively through the bus window,
holding the urn on his knees. He bus drives into a city under the
dome. All around, all we see are lights that look like high-rise
apartment buildings and factories.

The bus stops at the foot of a space elevator. Nemo picks up his
bag.


254 - INT. SPACE ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Nemo and the tourists are in a glass elevator rising through the
air. We pass through the city, leave the dome, overhanging Mars.
We pass other elevators carrying loads of bicycles.

                       NEMO
              What are we doing with all these                      *
              bikes ?                                               *

It is Anna, next to him, who answers.

                        ANNA
              They’re   for export. Labor is                        *
              cheaper here. China has become way
              too expensive.



                              - 105 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




255 - INT. SPACESHIP - NIGHT

Nemo is seated facing the big windows as other passengers come on
board. He looks at Anna sitting next to him. Nemo is unsettled. So
is Anna. They shake hands.

                        NEMO
              Hi. I’m Nemo.

                        ANNA
              Anna. Pleased to meet you.

                        NEMO
              What’s brought you here?

                        ANNA
              I’m measuring the distance between
              Earth and Mars at its greatest. I
              study time. You know, the thing
              that makes it so that everything
              doesn’t happen at once.

                        NEMO
              And?

                        ANNA
              The Big Crunch’ll start in 2092.
              People who can hang on that long
              will get a free run. And you?

Nemo looks at the urn tied to his bag.

                        NEMO
              Just keeping an old promise.


256 - EXT. CITY PARK - DAY

Nemo, long hair in a ponytail, is asleep on a bench near the
lighthouse. Adult Anna comes toward him. Nemo is levitating ten
inches above the bench. Anna touches his shoulder.

Nemo wakes with a start. He is no longer levitating. He is lying
on the bench. Anna isn’t there. He sits up slowly. He looks to
where he saw Anna in his dream. He takes a stump of chalk from his
pocket and draws a circle on the ground. He opens a paper bag: he
hesitates between a Danish and a chocolate éclair. Nemo sits back
down and looks at the circle. He closes his eyes, concentrating.

                        NEMO (OFF)
                 (calling)
              Anna! ... Anna! ...




                             - 106 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




257 - INT. BUS - DAY

                         ANNA
              NEMO!

Anna startles. She is sitting in the bus. Slowly, she smiles,
completely happy.

                         ANNA (CONT.)
              Nemo...


258 - EXT. ANNA’S STREET — DAY

Nemo — the widow - is behind the wheel of his car. He slows as he
reaches Anna’s house. It is number “12358.” He stops. He sees Anna
leave her house with her children. He gets out of his car.

                         NEMO
              Hi...

                         ANNA
              Hello...                                               *

                        NEMO
              We met at your husband’s funeral.

                        ANNA
              Yes, that’s right...                                   *

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              I had a strange feeling when I saw
              you... As if I had met you
              before...

                             ANNA
              That’s called déjà vu. You should
              know what that is. They say that                       *
              there’s a small zone in the brain,                     *
              the     “rhinal     cortex  ”, that                    *
              re g i s t e r s new objects in the                    *
              environment. If for a moment that
              zone is inactive, everything new
              seems familiar to you.

                        NEMO
              No, that’s not it... It’s as if...
              As if all this wasn’t real... I’m                      *
              sorry, you must think I’m crazy.                       *
              I’m not trying to flirt with you...                    *
              I’m a widower myself...                                *




                            - 107 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        ANNA
              Please excuse me... some other
              time, perhaps. I... I have to go...

Anna gets into her car and drives away. Nemo hears a voice.

                          ANNA’S NEIGHBOR
              Nemo?!

Nemo turns around. He sees someone he doesn’t recognize. The
stranger seems to be in shock.

                         ANNA’S NEIGHBOR (CONT.)
               Wow, I heard that you were dead!
               ... That you drowned...

                           NEMO
               Drowned?

     Nemo looks, intrigued, at a fish flopping on the ground at
     his feet.


259 - EXT. UNDER WATER — DAY

Nemo is underwater, imprisoned in his car. He is losing his
strength. A fish swims past him and looks at him. Nemo is about to
lose consciousness... With the last of his strength, he manages to
pull himself through the window. He slips outside, swims
underwater. He sees a light above him, a luminous oval-shaped
spot. He ascends. The zone of light is the shape of a bathtub.
Nemo rises as fast as he can...


260 - INT. HOTEL BATHROOM — DAY

... Nemo suddenly sits up. He is in his bath, naked, soaked. He
coughs and tries to catch his breath.

A man is seated in front of him on a stool, a revolver in his
hand. There is a plastic sheet stretched out on the floor. The man
fires. Nemo collapses in the water, which becomes red. The red
blood spreads through the water in circular swirls.


261 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM (1988) — DAY

Young Nemo’s electrocardiogram as he lies paralyzed on his bed, a
prisoner of his body. The needles are going wild, moving in every
direction. The nurses rush to his bedside. An alarm goes off.




                             - 108 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




262 - INT. SPACESHIP - NIGHT

Nemo is looking at Anna. An alarm suddenly goes off. Warning
lights start flashing.

                        LOUDSPEAKERS
              Meteorites.

Meteorites suddenly rain down on the vessel. The tourists run away
from the windows. Nemo clutches Anna’s hand. An explosion. The big
window bursts. The rocket explodes, liberating the bicycles, which
float through space.

Hundreds of black bicycles with chrome handlebars spin in slow
motion in the void, dispersing toward infinity, toward the stars,
to an accompaniment of classical music. Among the bicycles,
Elise’s urn.


263 - EXT. UNDER WATER — DAY

A picture of Anna and the children, in a “Think of us” frame, is
floating in the water. Nemo is struggling underwater, imprisoned
in his car. We move away, see the car at the bottom of the river.
Algae floats gently around it and the fish look on, curious. The
radio is still on, crackling with classical music. We hear a
heartbeat slowing down. All of a sudden, the airbag opens,
displaying the inscription: GAME OVER.


264 - INT. HOSPITAL — DAY

The needles on the electrocardiogram are going crazy. The nurses
are bustling about. Motionless, paralyzed on his bed, we hear
young Nemo howling. His lips don’t move.

                        NEMO (OFF)
                 (howling)
              LET ME OUT...


265 - EXT. BUSHES - DAY

Nemo’s dead feet sticking out of the thicket. Insects are crawling
on him.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              I WANT TO WAKE UP!


266 - EXT. TRAIN TRACKS — NIGHT

Nemo is standing immobile on the train tracks, watching a train
come toward him without budging.



                            - 109 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        NEMO (OFF)
              I WANT TO WAKE UP!


267 - INT. DOCTOR’S OFFICE — DAY

The doctor’s pendulum is swinging evenly in front of us. We can
make out the blurry doctor in the background. Old Nemo is overcome
by the shakes. He panics.

                        DOCTOR (OFF)
              Are you alright? When I say three,
              you’ll be awake. One...two...


268 - INT. SHOWROOM — DAY

                           DOCTOR (OFF)
              Three...

Adult Nemo wakes with a start. He notices a price tag attached to
the bedside lamp. We are in an immense furniture store, in the
bedroom section.


269 - EXT. STREET IN FRONT OF THE SHOWROOM — DAY

Nemo leaves the showroom. The street is deserted, not a single car
or pedestrian. Nemo looks at the ground at his feet. His body is
casting two shadows. He looks up: there are two suns in the sky.
There is also a small airplane pulling an advertising banner:
“WAKE UP.” Nemo runs.


270 - EXT. NEMO AND ELISE’S STREET — DAY

Nemo is running down the street where he lived with Elise. He
stops and looks around. The house is no longer there. The sound
track becomes more present. Nemo sees a bus go by. On board, an
orchestra is playing the sound track. He watches it pass, stunned.


271 - EXT. CARWASH - DAY

He runs to a car wash. Jean-Claude Van Damme is wiping car windows
dry with a chamois. Nemo goes up to him, amazed.

                         NEMO
              Aren’t you Jean-Claude Van Damme,
              the actor?

Jean-Claude Van Damme stops working, taken aback.

                        JEAN-CLAUDE VAN DAMME
              Are you joking?



                              - 110 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                          NEMO
                What are you doing here?

                         JEAN-CLAUDE VAN DAMME
                What do you think, I’m doing my                       *
                job.

                          NEMO
                But... you’re a movie star.

                          JEAN-CLAUDE VAN DAMME
                I wanted to be an actor, but I                        *
                always failed the auditions. These                    *
                days I do amateur theater one night                   *
                a week, maybe you saw me there.

He runs away.


272 - INT. NEMO’S MOTHER’S APARTMENT — DAY

Nemo comes to the apartment where his mother lived. He rings the
bell. His mother opens the door. She has aged. She looks at Nemo
without recognizing him.

                           MOTHER
                Yes?

                           NEMO
                Mum...

                          MOTHER
                Do I know you?                                        *

                           NEMO
                It’s me!

She tries to close the door. Nemo puts his foot in the door and
pushes it back open.

                          MOTHER
                What do you want?
                   (yelling)
                Henry! HENRY!

                          NEMO
                Mum, it’s me! Your son, Nemo!

                          MOTHER
                My son is right here.

The door opens wider, revealing a somewhat hefty man the same age
as Nemo: HENRY.




                              - 111 -
                                                "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        HENRY
              What’s goin’ on?                                        *

                        MOTHER
              This man says he’s my son.                              *

                         NEMO
              You   couldn’t       possibly   have
              forgotten.

                        MOTHER
              I don’t know you. You’re crazy. Go
              away or I’ll call the police.

Henry pushes Nemo toward the door. Nemo and Henry fight, rolling
around on the floor while the mother picks up the phone.


273 - INT. DOCTOR’S OFFICE — DAY

Nemo is wearing a straitjacket. He is sitting across from a doctor
who looks at him kindly. It is the same hospital where old Nemo
is. The doctor shows him a series of Rorschach blots, symmetrical
ink stains on sheets of paper.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF)
              He asks me what I see. I say it’s
              an “ink stain.”

Adult Nemo’s lip movement is perfectly synchronized the child’s
voice.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              He says I have to say more. I say
              it’s an ink stain on a sheet of                         *
              paper. He says no, I have to say
              what goes through my mind.

The doctor’s lip movements correspond perfectly with the voice of
child Nemo. Nemo looks at an ink well on the table.

                        CHILD NEMO (OFF) (CONT.)
              I say it makes me think of an ink
              well. So then he says, okay, that’s                     *
              fine.


274 - TELEVISION

Television images of old Nemo in his hospital bed.

274A - In the street, people crowd around TV screens.

274Abis - On the side of the screen runs an ad for Big Crunch
breakfast cereal.



                            - 112 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        COMMENTARY
              You have until tomorrow noon to                        *
              vote: Should the last mortal be
              allowed to die a natural death? Or
              should he be kept alive? Vote and
              win a vacation on the Moon for the
              whole family.

Images of a family in a recreation center on the Moon.


275 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM — NIGHT

The journalist is with old Nemo.

                        JOURNALIST
              They’ve announced the results    of
              the voting. I’m sorry...

                        OLD NEMO
              At my age, the candles cost more
              than the cake. I’m not afraid of
              dying. I’m afraid I haven’t been                       *
              alive enough. They should write it                     *
              on every schoolroom blackboard:                        *
              “Life is a playground. Or nothing.”                    *


276 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM — DAY

Adult Nemo is in a hospital room. He is finishing his meal. On the
corner of his tray is a fortune cookie. He bites off a corner and
takes out the little slip of paper is something indecipherable.
Nemo studies it carefully. He gets up and goes to the window. He
holds the paper up to the windowpane. The inscription is written
from right to left. In the reflection we can read: NEMO. LEAVE. He
looks out the window.

276A - On the other side of the street, a man is posting a sign —
in reverse time - that reads: NOW. The reflection of his fortune
cookie paper is superimposed, forming a full sentence: NEMO, LEAVE
NOW. Nemo gets dressed.


277 - EXT. HOSPITAL EXIT AND STREET — DAY

Nemo leaves the hospital. He walks down the almost deserted
street. All of the cars are red. The clouds look like they are
hand-painted.

277A - On top of a building an electric sign with running text:
READ THE NEWPORT NEWS. Then the SWEN TROPWEN EHT DAER , OMEN
(backwards lettering). Nemo reads the reflection in the window:
NEMO, READ THE NEWPORT NEWS.




                           - 113 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



A man wearing a hat gets up from a bench in reverse time, leaving
his newspaper: The Newport News. Nemo opens it. His eyes are drawn
to an article about a car accident. We see a picture of a crane
pulling a car from a river. Nemo skims the article... He stops at
an ordinary sentence in the middle of the text: “NEMO , turn to
page 5.” He opens to page five. Written there is “turn around.” He
turns around.

277B - On the outskirts of town stands a cliff, overlooking the
whole landscape. Enormous letters are carved: “NEMO, CALL 123-581-
1321.”

Nemo goes to a phone booth. He drops in a coin, dials the number.
A voice answers. His own voice.

                         NEMO (OFF)
              Hello?

                        NEMO
              Hello? ... Who is this?

                        NEMO (OFF)
              Hello? Who’s calling?

                        NEMO
              I was told to call this number. My
              name is Nemo. Nemo Nobody.

                        NEMO (OFF)
              Is this some kind of joke?

                         NEMO
              No, I...

The other end hangs up. Nemo remains in the booth, dumbfounded. He
dials another number.

                        NEMO (CONT.)
              Yes, please, I’d like to know the
              address corresponding to 123-581-
              1321.

                        OPERATOR
              One moment, please... 12358 Aloïs
              Street.


278 - EXT. STREET WITH ANNA’S ABANDONED HOUSE — DAY

Nemo reaches number 12358 at a run, sweating. He looks at the
house. It is Anna’s house. It is abandoned. Planks are nailed over
the doors and windows. It is surrounded by piles of garbage. Nemo
pulls off one of the planks and goes inside.




                            - 114 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




279 - INT. ANNA’S ABANDONED HOUSE - DAY

The interior is a mess of dust and stray cats. Light filters in
through the planks. Nemo comes to the living room, in which there
is only one chair, a television set, and a coffee table. Nemo goes
to the table. He sees the psychiatrist’s futuristic video
recording equipment. He blows off the dust and presses a button.
An image appears.

279A - It is old Nemo, against a neutral background, sitting at a
table, a sheet of paper in front of him. He is looking at the
camera. Next to the TV set, a small camera begins recording. For a
moment, the image runs backwards, then stops, and starts again on
forward.

                        OLD NEMO
                 (on the screen)
              Hello, Nemo. I’m glad you found me.                    *

Adult Nemo can’t believe his eyes. He sits down in the chair,
flabbergasted, and watches the screen.

                        OLD NEMO (CONT.)
              All of    this must     seem  very
              complicated to you. But it’s
              simpler than you think.
                 (he looks at his notes)
              Be careful, the chair is damaged.

The old chair breaks under Nemo, who falls to the ground.

                        OLD NEMO (CONT.)
              Are you all right?

                        NEMO
                 (to himself)
              Fine.                                                  *

                        OLD NEMO
              I should have warned you earlier.
              But I couldn’t, because of the
              transcript.                                            *

Old Nemo points to the typewritten pages spread out in front of
him.

                        NEMO
                 (to himself)
              The transcript?                                        *

                        OLD NEMO
              The text of our conversation.




                           - 115 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



Nemo’s amazement. He looks at the screen, moves closer, looks all
around.

                        OLD NEMO (CONT.)
              Go ahead, say it. You’re dying to
              ask me.                                               *

                        NEMO
              You... you can hear me?

Old Nemo looks at the papers in front of him, then answers:

                        OLD NEMO
              Of course I hear you.

                        NEMO
              You... It’s a...recording...

                        OLD NEMO
              What you are living now is the
              past, at least for me. I am you,
              seventy years older. Everything you
              say, I said myself when I was
              young. I went into that house, I
              saw what you see. I only had to
              transcribe our conversation. It’s                     *
              all written right here, you see.                      *
              Each word you think you are
              inventing is here on this paper.                      *

He holds up the sheets of paper. The dialogue is written on them.
The small camera films the scene.

                           NEMO
              I can’t...

                        OLD NEMO
                 (reading)
              “believe it.” I can’t communicate                     *
              with you any differently. For me,                     *
              time is inverted. I start from the
              end of the story and I go toward
              the beginning.

                        NEMO
              I don’t understand anything.

                        OLD NEMO
              You’re wondering what life you’re
              in. In this life here, you were
              never born. I don’t know why. Only
              the architect knows.

                        NEMO
              The architect?



                              - 116 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                        OLD NEMO
              The child. The one running after
              the train. Maybe your parents never
              met.

279B - Flash: The father walking down the sidewalk, the mother
coming toward him. A gust of wind blows his umbrella up the wrong
way. They pass without noticing each other.

                        OLD NEMO (CONT.)
              Maybe your father died aged five in                    *
              a sledding accident.

279C - Flash: Snow. A child in the 1930s racing toward a tree on a
sled, who then remains inanimate.

                        OLD NEMO (CONT.)
              Maybe you are on e of the vast                         *
              majority of those whose genetic
              code    did    not    reach their                      *
              destination...

279D - Flash: We see a sperm stop moving and die slowly among
thousands of others.


280 - EXT. PREHISTORY — DAY

A pregnant prehistoric woman trembling with fever, lying in the
snow. Her belly protrudes; she is six-months pregnant. Slowly, the
snow covers her.


281 - INT. ANNA’S ABANDONED HOUSE — DAY

Nemo is watching the screen. Old Nemo is talking to him.

                        OLD NEMO
              Maybe when she died, a prehistoric
              woman killed off the line of humans                    *
              to which you belong. So for this                       *
              world, you don’t exist.

Nemo steps back, dumbfounded.

                        OLD NEMO (CONT.)
              If Anna’s calculations are correct,
              and you want to find her, you must                     *
              stay alive until 2092, February 12,
              at 05:50.                                              *

The image on the television screen goes fuzzy. Nemo knocks over
everything around him. He runs away.




                              - 117 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




282 - EXT. STREET OF ANNA’S ABANDONED HOUSE — DAY

Nemo emerges from the house. He looks at it. He sees himself,
standing behind the window, waving good-bye. A shadow appears
above him, enormous.

282A - Nemo sees a gigantic foot descend from the sky and crush
the house, which shatters. It is only a model. Nemo runs toward
the hills.


283 - EXT. HILLSIDE — EVENING

Nemo is climbing the hill, out of breath. The city is behind him,
in the low-angled light of the setting sun. He goes pas the giant
letters spelling out: “NEMO, CALL 123-581-1321.” When he reaches
the summit, Nemo sees the sun.

283A - It is hanging from enormous cables connected to a gigantic
winch that hundreds of stagehands are turning to produce the
sunset. Two nurses in smocks catch up to Nemo and grab him.


284 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM (2092) — NIGHT

The journalist is looking at old Nemo in silence. He is stunned.
Nemo has finished. We hear a repeating sound: the tape reached the
end of the reel a while back, but it is still turning, flapping.
The journalist finally notices.

                        JOURNALIST
              I’m sorry, I don’t know how long we
              haven’t been recording. I... I have
              to submit my s t o r y    tomorrow                     *
              morning. Everything you say is
              contradictory. You can’t have been
              in one place and another at the
              same time. You can’t have had
              children and not have had them.

                        OLD NEMO
              You mean to say we have to make                        *
              choices?        That   we    can’t                     *
              simultaneously be a train conductor
              in the Andes cordillera, a trapper
              in Alaska, and an astronaut?

                        JOURNALIST
              Of all those lives, which one is
              the right one?

                        OLD NEMO
              Each of those lives is the right
              one. Every path is the right path.
                        (MORE)


                           - 118 -
                                                  "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11

                         OLD NEMO (cont'd)
               “Everything   could   have  been
               anything else and it would have
               just as much meaning.” Tennessee
               Williams. You’re too young for                               *
               that.

                          JOURNALIST
               That’s impossible. You can’t be
               dead and still be here. You can’t
               not exist.
                  (he sighs)
               Or...is there life after death?

Nemo laughs.

                         OLD NEMO
               After death? ... How can you be so
               sure you’re alive? You still don’t
               understand?

The journalist doesn’t.

                         OLD NEMO (CONT.)
               You don’t exist. Neither do I.

The journalist still doesn’t understand.

                         OLD NEMO (CONT.)
               We only live in the imagination of                           *
               a nine-year-old child.                                       *

284A - FLASH: Child Nemo running after the train.

Child Ne mo ’s voice takes the place         of   old   Ne mo ’s   voice,
synchronized with the old man’s lips.

                         OLD NEMO (CONT.)
                  (with the voice of child Nemo)
               We are imagined by a nine -year-old                          *
               child faced with an impossible
               choice.

The journalist turns around.

284B - He is at the train window and sees:


285 - EXT. TRAIN STATION — DAY

Child Nemo is running after the train carrying his mother away. He
turns around, looks at his father, hesitates. He looks at his
mother, hesitates. He wets his pants. His eyes go wide. A series
of flashes appear to him, lots of quick scenes, each one
containing the others:




                            - 119 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



He looks toward his mother:... A - The three little girls... B -
the train trip with his mother... C - an electric train in his
mother’s apartment... D - We leave the apartment through the
window and find ourselves on the beach with teenage Anna... E - A
picture of the beach hanging in Nemo’s room as he lies sleeping
with Anna... F - We approach Anna’s face, who is no longer in the
bed but in a car carrying her away... G - Adult Nemo meeting Anna
again... H - The drop of rain erasing the phone number... I - Nemo
in the studio recording the science program... J - Adult Anna on
the phone, surrounded by children... K - Adult Nemo driving in a
car... L - The accident... M - Nemo prisoner in his car,
underwater, drowning...

On the station platform, child Nemo turns toward his father:
Another series of flashes appears to him... N - The three little
girls... O - Child Nemo leaving the station with his father... P -
The paraplegic father who teenage Nemo bathes... Q - The meeting
with teenage Elise... R - The motorcycle accident... S - Teenage
Nemo in a coma in the hospital... T - Adult Nemo taking care of
bedridden adult Elise... U - Elise packing her bag and leaving...
V - Nemo living with Jean... W - The hand over the candle... X -
The train racing toward Nemo... Y - The meeting with Clara... Z -
Widowed Nemo, alone in his bed... A1 - Widowed Anna... B1 -
Astronaut Nemo in the spaceship... C1 - The exploding rocket, the
bicycles in space... D1 - Nemo in his bath, the shot... E1 -
Nemo’s body thrown into the bushes...

Child Nemo, overwhelmed by these visions, stares wide-eyed.


286 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM (2092) — DAWN

Old Nemo pushes his chess game away and gets up.

                        OLD NEMO
                 (with the child’s voice)
              In chess, it’s called “Zugzwang”
              when the only viable move is not to
              move. Come see...

They move toward the window.

286A - Around the hospital, the city is being dismantled into
blocks that in turn dissipate in the air.

                        OLD NEMO (CONT.)
                 (with the child’s voice)
              What’s that called again?

The journalist and the old man look out the window. Behind the
buildings, now gone, the sea stretches out before them.
Helicopters are removing huge blocks of sea. They are taking the
sea apart.




                           - 120 -
                                             "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



                           JOURNALIST
              The sea...

                        OLD NEMO
                 (with the child’s voice)
              That’s right, the sea... The child                     *
              is taking it apart. He doesn’t need
              it anymore. Before, he was unable                      *
              to make a choice because he didn’t                     *
              know what would happen. And now
              that he knows what will happen, he
              is unable to make a choice.                            *

Nemo gets back into bed. He looks more tired. The heartbeat
monitor slows. An alarm goes off.


287 - EXT. TRAIN STATION — DAY

Child Nemo sees the train moving away with his mother on board. He
stands there, dazed. He turns back toward his father, then toward
his mother, not knowing which of the two directions to choose.
Then throws himself perpendicularly in a third direction: he
crosses the tracks and runs through the nearby woods, far from his
father and mother.


288 - EXT. WOODS — DAY

Child Nemo is running breathlessly through the trees. He stops.
Rays of light penetrate the branches. Nemo picks up a dead leaf
from the ground and blows on it. The leaf flies away, dancing in
the air. A gust of wind blows through the trees, carrying the dead
leaf toward the clouds...


289 - EXT. ATMOSPHERIC LAYERS — DAY

...The clouds change form, blown by the wind. Dense clouds are
moved and stretched through the layers of the atmosphere...


290 - EXT./INT. MISC. — DAY/NIGHT

The dead leaf, lying on the road before the accident, right where
teenage Nemo’s motorcycle will pass, blows away, pushed by a burst
of wind. The motorcycle continues its path.

290A - Teenage Nemo at the beach with teenage Anna. Nemo does what
he never dared do: he kisses her on the lips.

290B - Nemo, Jean’s husband, opens the door of their house, home
from work. Jean and the children look at him in surprise. He holds
out his fishing rod and takes off his coat.




                              - 121 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11



290C - A drop of rain forms in the clouds and falls to the ground.
Adult Anna writes her number on a scrap of paper and gives it to
Nemo. The drop lands on Nemo’s shoe.

290D - Adult Nemo is waiting for Anna. He looks at the chalk
circle on the ground. Anna is arriving in the distance. They walk
toward each other, then run until they meet in the chalk circle.
They embrace. They cry for joy. We circle around them.

                        NEMO
              THANK YOU! THANK YOU WIND! THANK
              YOU RAIN! THANK YOU CARS, THANK YOU
              PASSERSBY, THANK YOU CHILDREN,
              THANK YOU DOGS, THANK YOU!


291 - INT. HOSPITAL (2092) — DAY

The heart monitor slows. Old Nemo is lying on his bed. The city
around the hospital has disappeared. Nemo is dying. Nurses bustle
around him. He looks at the digital calendar that reads “February
12, 2092. 05:16.” He smiles. Miniature cameras hover on the other    *
side of the window.

291A - His image is retransmitted on a giant TV screen above the
hospital. In SUPERIMPOSTION : “LAST WORDS.” A microphone is placed
at his lips. He murmurs.

                        OLD NEMO
              This is... the most      beautiful
              day... of my life.

Nemo stiffens, his breathing weakening. His heartbeat slows even
more.

                        OLD NEMO (CONT.)
              Anna... Anna...

Nemo stiffens. The heart monitor shows only a flat line.

The clock turns to 5:17. The second slow, then stop... The clock
freezes...


292 - EXT. SPACE

The planets slow their progress around the sun. They freeze... The
“universe” ceases to expand. The universe freezes.


293 - EXT. STREET — DAY

On Earth, in the streets, everything has stopped moving: a dog
frozen in mid leap, passersby immobilize, feet in the air, water
in a fountain...



                           - 122 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




294 - EXT. SPACE

Then, slowly, the universe reverses its movement. It folds back in
on itself. The planets start moving again, in the opposite
direction. The Big Crunch.


295 - INT./EXT. MISC. — DAY

On the hospital clock, the seconds start moving in the opposite
direction.

A - In the street, people walk backwards down the sidewalks. B -
Dead leaves go back up into the trees and reattach themselves. C -
Rain goes back up into the sky. D - The broken vase on the floor
becomes whole again and returns to the hands of Nemo’s father. E -
Smoke from a cigarette goes back into the cigarette. F - The
swirls of a drop of ink diluted in a glass of water come back
together. G - The mashed potatoes and gravy separate in baby
Nemo’s plate. H - In the cookie factory, the piece of egg shell
reattaches to the shell, now whole. I - A typewriter erases the
letters from a page, leaving only a white sheet of paper. J - In a
maternity ward, a baby goes back into its mother’s belly.


296 - INT. HOSPITAL — DAY

Old Nemo’s heart begins beating again. He opens his eyes,
surprised. The nurses, stunned, walk backwards out of the room.
Nemo laughs. He gets up and leaves the room, backwards.


297 - EXT. STREET — DAY

Nemo is walking backwards down the street, smiling.

297A - He has grown young again.


298 - EXT. STREET — DAY

Adult Nemo looking at Anna’s phone number, which is no longer
visible. The rain pulls itself from puddles on the ground in order
to go back up into the sky. A drop of water leaves the scrap of
paper and the ink reforms the digits of the telephone number. Nemo
sees Anna arriving, walking backwards. They embrace and leave
together, backwards.


299 - INT. HOSPITAL ROOM (1988) — DAY

Nemo is motionless, in a coma. Suddenly, a finger moves, then
two...




                              - 123 -
                                              "Mr. NOBODY" VERSION 11




300 - EXT. UNDER WATER — DAY

A bubble of water descends through the water and slips between
Nemo’s lips as he is motionless in his car. Nemo begins breathing
again.


301 - EXT. CITY — DAY

Adult Nemo, in reverse, hangs the “NOW” poster across from the
hospital.


302 - EXT. NEMO AND ELISE’S STREET — DAY

Adult Nemo, dressed as a mail carrier, in reverse, slips the
envelope containing the picture of Nemo and Jean under the door of
Nemo and Elise’s house.


303 - INT. MOTHER’S APARTMENT — DAY

Teenage Nemo is at the foot of Anna’s bed. Nemo’s body is lifted
from the floor and slips back into Anna’s bed, into her arms. They
roll together, embracing.


304 - EXT. YARD OF THE FATHER’S HOUSE — DAY

Nemo’s father is painting the clouds. The colors come off the
canvas and go back onto the brush. The father finishes. He admires
the blank canvas.


305 - EXT. BESIDE A LAKE — DAY

Child Anna is sitting beside a lake, on a dock. Stones emerge from
the water to land in her hand. Suddenly, a stone emerges from the
water right next to her. She turns around, smiling. Child Nemo
comes toward her. They play together by the water, laughing.

                        THE END                                      *




                           - 124 -
